# Optional Rule: Encumbrance

This is an optional rule that the MJ can use if it will enhance her
game. In most cases, the calculations are more effort than they're worth
and rarely provide any actual change in the game. However, if the
players start carrying around dozens of heavy items, the MJ might decide
that this use can help bring her players' gear into line with her
expectations for the game. *The Queen's Cavaliers* is a swashbuckling
action game, and not about lugging around heavy weights!

## Carrying Limit

A human carrying a Person-sized object takes a Drop 2 penalty on attack
rolls (Dueling, Brawl, and Aim), and cannot move more than one area in a
given turn. Humans cannot usually move items of Carriage size or higher,
unless it's got wheels or something similar.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: example ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
You pick up an unconscious colleague and carry her over your
shoulders. That's obviously a Person-sized object, so you get a Drop 2
penalty and can't run.
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Combining Encumbrance

Three items of a smaller size are equivalent to one item of larger size.
So three Portable items are as bulky and heavy as one Person-sized
object -- meaning if you're carrying a musket, a zweihander, and a pike
(all Portable-sized objects), you've got the equivalent of a
Person-sized object and take the Drop 2 penalty, plus you can't run.

Three Pocket-sized items equal a Handheld object; three Handheld-sized
items equal a Portable object; and three Portable-sized items equal a
Person-sized object. You could carry eight Handheld objects -- say, a
cutlass, a buckler, and a brace of six pistols tied together by rope --
and not be slowed down, because that only equals two Portable items,
which is less than a Person-sized object.

## Worn Items

Items that are specifically designed to be worn -- and which can't be
removed easily during the middle of a fight (and sometimes, even after a
fight) -- count as one size lower for purposes of encumbrance when worn.
A suit of armor is normally Person-sized, but if you're wearing it, it
counts as Portable-sized. (If you're trying to carry an empty suit of
armor, though, it counts as Person-sized.) A worn breastplate (Portable)
counts as a Handheld item. 

Pocket-sized items which are worn don't count at all for encumbrance
purposes, unless you're wearing three of the same kind -- for example, a
worn wrist holster (Pocket) or two doesn't weigh you down at all. Three
worn wrist holsters, however, would equal a Pocket-sized objects -- base
size of Pocket, stepped up to Handheld for three of them, then stepped
down again to Pocket size for being worn.

Clothing of any type never counts for calculating encumbrance -- it's
all considered Pocket size (regardless of actual size) and thus is not
included when worn unless you're doing something silly like wearing
three different capes at the same time.

## Other Things That Don't Weigh Very Much

Medicine, alchemy supplies, draughts and unguents, poisons, and other
small consumables don't count for encumbrance unless you've got 9 of
them, in which case they count as a Pocket-sized object. Ammunition and
powder for your guns, arrows for your crossbows and bows, and other
types of ammo don't ever count; they're included with the weapon itself
(especially as they're not tracked in *The Queen's Cavaliers*).

Other supplies (art supplies, blackpowder supplies, clockwork gears,
fabric, foodstuffs) count as one Pocket-size object for every three
units you carry. So if you're carrying, say, 10 units of clockwork
gears, that counts as three Pocket-size objects, or 1 Handheld object.
Two or fewer units of these supplies don't count for encumbrance
purposes.

