# Equipment

In this chapter, we'll look at the mundane clothes, weapons, tools, and
other items that a cavalier might use during the course of her day.

### Item Scale

Every item has a scale that describes the general size of the item:
pocket scale, handheld scale, portable scale, human scale, furniture
scale, room scale, and building scale. In general, it's easy enough to
determine the scale of most items, but for some items a scale is
explicitly listed in the lists that follow.

The scale concept is used in the optional rules for Encumbrance, later
in this chapter, as well as for clockwork devices in Chapter 9,
"Specialty Equipment," and animals in Chapter 20, "Opponents."

#### Pocket Scale

A pocket-scale device is light, easily concealed, requires only one hand
to operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing
without attracting undue notice. Examples include small pistols or
knives, flasks of alchemical brews, and a pet mouse. 

Weapons of this size are classified as Either Hand weapons.

#### Handheld Scale

A handheld item usually requires one hand to operate and can be carried
on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Most can't be easily
concealed unless you're willing to forego easy access. Examples include
most swords, tool kits, bucklers, and large hats.

When describing animals, such as cats or small dogs, handheld scale is
known as pet scale. Weapons of this size are classified as Main Hand
weapons.

#### Portable Scale

A portable-scale item is one which requires two hands to carry and
operate, or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Examples include
two-handed swords, muskets, and bar stools.

The equivalent scale for animals is companion scale. A portable-scale
weapon is classified a Both Hands weapon.

#### Human Scale

An object roughly the size of a person – such as a statue or a suit of
rigid armor – can't be easily carried by a single person without
requiring her full attention. Other examples include work carts, heavy
chairs, and velocipedes.

#### Furniture Scale

Larger than a human but smaller than a room, a carriage-scale item is
around the size of a bed, a wardrobe dresser, or a small carriage. At
best, an adult human can drag a furniture-scale item around but can't
pick it up. Other furniture-scale items are horses, rowboats, and
thrones.

In descriptions of animals, furniture scale is known as mount scale.

#### Room Scale

Room-scale items can be rooms themselves, the amount of furnishings it
takes to fill up a room, or an object of comparable size. In combat,
each room-scale item is usually its own Area.

Mammoth scale is the equivalent of room scale when describing animals.

#### Building Scale

Building-scale items include buildings, of course, but also large
vehicles such as sailing ships or airships. In combat situations, a
building-scale object is usually divided into multiple Areas.

When talking about animals this large, such as giant squids or great
whales, the term behemoth scale is used.

::::::::::::::::::::::::: option ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;
### Optional Rule: Encumbrance

This is an optional rule that the MJ can use if it will enhance her
game. In most cases, the calculations are more effort than they're worth
and rarely provide any actual change in the game. However, if the
players start carrying around dozens of heavy items, the MJ might decide
that this use can help bring her players' gear into line with her
expectations for the game. *The Queen's Cavaliers* is a swashbuckling
action game, and not about lugging around heavy weights\!

#### Carrying Limit

A human carrying a Person-sized object takes a Drop 2 penalty on attack
rolls (Dueling, Brawl, and Aim), and cannot move more than one area in a
given turn. Humans cannot usually move items of Carriage size or higher,
unless it's got wheels or something similar.

*Example:* You pick up an unconscious colleague and carry her over your
shoulders. That's obviously a Person-sized object, so you get a Drop 2
penalty and can't run.

#### Combining Encumbrance

Three items of a smaller size are equivalent to one item of larger size.
So three Portable items are as bulky and heavy as one Person-sized
object -- meaning if you're carrying a musket, a zweihander, and a pike
(all Portable-sized objects), you've got the equivalent of a
Person-sized object and take the Drop 2 penalty, plus you can't run.

Three Pocket-sized items equal a Handheld object; three Handheld-sized
items equal a Portable object; and three Portable-sized items equal a
Person-sized object. You could carry eight Handheld objects -- say, a
cutlass, a buckler, and a brace of six pistols tied together by rope --
and not be slowed down, because that only equals two Portable items,
which is less than a Person-sized object.

#### Worn Items

Items that are specifically designed to be worn -- and which can't be
removed easily during the middle of a fight (and sometimes, even after a
fight) -- count as one size lower for purposes of encumbrance when worn.
A suit of armor is normally Person-sized, but if you're wearing it, it
counts as Portable-sized. (If you're trying to carry an empty suit of
armor, though, it counts as Person-sized.) A worn breastplate (Portable)
counts as a Handheld item. 

Pocket-sized items which are worn don't count at all for encumbrance
purposes, unless you're wearing three of the same kind -- for example, a
worn wrist holster (Pocket) or two doesn't weigh you down at all. Three
worn wrist holsters, however, would equal a Pocket-sized objects -- base
size of Pocket, stepped up to Handheld for three of them, then stepped
down again to Pocket size for being worn.

Clothing of any type never counts for calculating encumbrance -- it's
all considered Pocket size (regardless of actual size) and thus is not
included when worn unless you're doing something silly like wearing
three different capes at the same time.

#### Other Things That Don't Weigh Very Much

Medicine, alchemy supplies, draughts and unguents, poisons, and other
small consumables don't count for encumbrance unless you've got 9 of
them, in which case they count as a Pocket-sized object. Ammunition and
powder for your guns, arrows for your crossbows and bows, and other
types of ammo don't ever count; they're included with the weapon itself
(especially as they're not tracked in *The Queen's Cavaliers*).

Other supplies (art supplies, blackpowder supplies, clockwork gears,
fabric, foodstuffs) count as one Pocket-size object for every three
units you carry. So if you're carrying, say, 10 units of clockwork
gears, that counts as three Pocket-size objects, or 1 Handheld object.
Two or fewer units of these supplies don't count for encumbrance
purposes.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
