

THE QUEEN’S CAVALIERS


_The Queen’s Cavaliers_ is a swashbuckling, clockpunk tabletop
roleplaying game inspired by _The Three Musketeers_.

It features a diverse setting and unique game mechanics.

The manuscript is in the process of being added to this github site in
Markdown (github-flavored), and will soon be available in HTML, PDF, and
other formats.

The game mechanics are licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International (CC BY 4.0).

The description of the world of _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ are licensed
under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0
International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0.

All artwork for _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ is licensed under Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC
BY-NC-SA 4.0.


Character Creation

Character Creation Overview

To make your own character for _The Queen’s Cavaliers_, follow these
instructions while filling out the character sheet.

0. Competency Die, XP, & Yield Limit

As a starting character, you have a D6 competency die and you start with
0 XP earned, 0 XP spent. Your Yield Limit equals the maximum value of
your Competency Die plus 3, so 9 for a starting character.

1. Choose Two Classes

Your character is a composite of two classes. For each class chosen,
record the following information:

A. Skills & Specialty Ranks

Your classes determine your starting Skill Competency and your Specialty
ranks. For each skill listed, check the corresponding box to indicate
Competency. For each Specialty listed, place a +1 in the appropriate
blank space; if both classes give ranks in a specialty, write +2.

B. Weapon & Armor Prowess

Your Weapon prowess & Armor prowess are the total of those granted by
your two classes. Check the boxes on the character sheet that correspond
with all of your Weapon and Armor prowesses.

C. Social Rank & Wealth

For each of your classes, record the Social Rank and the die for each
rank. For example, if your two classes give the social ranks Commoner
(1D0) and Soldier (1D6), you’d write down “Commoner (1D0)” and “Soldier
(1D6).” Also record the dice values on the Wealth section of your
character sheet, along with your Competency Die. Your total Wealth Roll
consists of those three dice together in a pool.

The social ranks are:

-   Commoner (D0)
-   Soldier (D6)
-   Artisan (D8)
-   Noble (D10)
-   Royalty (D12)

D. Bonus Gear

Each class provides you with a set of clothing and possibly additional
equipment.

E. Style Maneuvers

Choose one Style Maneuver from each class and record it on your
character sheet.

2. Attributes

Your attributes are Verve, Affinity, and Guile. Assign one of them the
value D10, another one D8, and the last D6, and write those in the
appropriate boxes. You probably want to put the D10 in the attribute
that corresponds to the column where you have the most Specialty ranks,
but it’s not required.

3. Nationality & Languages

Choose and record your nationality.

If you are from Gallinea, you speak and read Gallinean; if not, you
speak your native language automatically and don’t know Gallinean
(you’ll need to learn it with one of your customizations; see step 10).
For each prowess rank you have in Culture (Scholarship), you speak and
read an additional language. Record each language that you know.

4. Passions & Personifications

Choose four Passions for your character that describe what she feels is
important in her life. The standard Passions are Artistry, Church,
Country, Faith, Family, Friends, Justice, Knowledge, Love, Loyalty,
Lust, Pride, and Wealth. You will rank your four chosen Passions from
D12 (the strongest) to D6 (the weakest).

_Optional:_ For each Passion, name one person associated with that
passion and record that person’s name to the right of the Passion. This
is the person (living or dead) whom your character most closely
associates with that Passion, either positively or negatively. You can
use an existing NPC (or even PC), or name a new one.

5. Customizations

You get to choose up to six customizations for your character. Choose
your six customizations from the following list (you can choose each
customization more than once):

-   Increase one of your Social Rank values by one step; you can
    increase each Social Rank die only once.
-   Add one Weapon or Armor Prowess.
-   Add a new Language.
-   Add one Skill Competency.
-   Add +1 rank in a Specialty, to a maximum of +2.
-   Add a Style Maneuver from either of your classes or from your
    Nationality.

6. Additional Equipment

You begin with bonus gear as determined by your class listings. You also
get your choice of one weapon: Knife, Pistol, or Sword.

You begin the game with three Rewards – one of them equal to your
Competency Die, and the other two equal to your Social Rank Dice. You
can buy additional equipment by using these Rewards – for example, a D8
Reward can be used to purchase any item of cost D8 or lower.

If you don’t want any of your starting gear, you can sell it back and
gain an equivalent Barter Die. For example, if you don’t want a musket
(Cost: 1D10), you can trade it in for one D10 Barter Die. You can’t make
any Purchase rolls or use your Barter Dice during character creation,
but you can spend your Rewards.

7. Character Details

Write down a name, gender, and other biographical data for your
character. Write down two or three words for your character’s
Reputation, such as “Fearsome Opponent,” “Mostly Harmless,” or “Renowned
Lover.” Your reputation need not be true.

Passions

Characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ are passionate, and their passions
often spur them on to fantastic success or dismal failure.

Each character is defined by four Passions that are ranked with Passion
Dice, from D12 at the highest, down to D10, D8, and D6 at the lowest.
The size of each Passion Die indicates the relative strength of that
Passion in the character’s life.

You must always have one passion at D12, one at D10, one at D8, and one
at D6, and they must all be different Passions. (You can’t double up
with the same Passion with two different dice sizes.)

In addition, each of your Passions is embodied by another character,
living or dead, as the Personification of that Passion in your
character’s mind.

Using Passions

You can use your character’s Passions when roleplaying, by making
decisions that reflect the role her Passions play in her thoughts.

In addition, Passions can also be used with Style Points for game
benefits. Passions can be used in one of three ways:

-   Indulge your Passion during a scene to gain 1 Style Point.
-   Add your Passion die to a roll by spending 1 Style Point.
-   Struggle with your Passion to make it harder for you to succeed at
    something – and when you fail, you gain a free Style Point.

Indulge Your Passion

During a scene, if your character takes the time to focus on her Passion
to the exclusion of other activities, you can gain 1 Style Point – but
only up to the normal maximum of three Style Points at any one time. You
can only do this once per Passion, per session.

For example, someone whose Passion is their Faith may engage in prayer,
while another person who has a Passion for Knowledge may engage in
scientific discovery or reading a new book.

As with any time in which a Style Point is gained, you must describe how
your character is acting with style.

Add Your Passion Die

By spending a Style Point, you can add one Passion Die to a Dice Pool
under the following conditions:

-   Your Passion must be related to the roll that you are making.
-   You have not already added that Passion to a die roll in this
    session.

You need to have a good reason why your success or failure hinges on
your character’s Passion – for example, perhaps your character is
motivated to succeed because of her sense of Pride, or her desire for
more Wealth. If you can’t justify how your character’s Passion would
influence the outcome, you can’t spend the Style Point and can’t include
your Passion Die.

Struggle With Your Passion

Sometimes your character’s Passion isn’t a benefit, but is a hindrance.
In such cases you can choose to struggle with that Passion by adding the
appropriate Passion Die to the opposing Dice Pool when the MJ makes a
dice roll.

If your roll then fails, you gain 1 Style Point and get to describe how
your character’s Passion conflicted her and caused her to fail. If your
roll succeeds, you don’t gain this Style Point.

You can only choose to do this when the roll is related to your
character’s Passion, as with adding the Passion Die to your own roll; in
addition, you can only do this once per Passion per session.

Inverted Passions

Sometimes, one’s love for something can be twisted into pain. These are
known as inverted passions; rather than being passionate toward the
object of your Passion, you’re opposed to it.

You decide when you select a Passion whether it’s normal or inverted.
You probably shouldn’t have more than one inverted Passion for a
starting character, although your Passions may become inverted during
the course of game play. (See “Changing Passions”, below.)

List of Passions

The following is a list of the most common Passions that drive
characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_. You can pick from this list or
write your own custom Passion.

Several of these Passions require additional definition, such as
specifying the Country that you’re passionate about, or the group you’re
loyal to. You can record this beside the Passion die on your character
sheet

Artistry

A character with a Passion for Artistry is drawn toward things of
beauty, be they works of art, music, science, or nature. Such characters
are often either artists themselves, or patrons of the arts.

EXAMPLE: Countess Lusienne Castenia, the Lady-Mayor of Gallinea, loves
nothing more than a grand party to welcome the start of a new play, the
opening of a new gallery, or the arrival of an artiste from far-away
lands. She has a strong Passion for Artistry, even though she herself is
not artistically talented.

ARTISTRY, INVERTED: The ugliness of your soul drives you to destroy
things of beauty rather than cherish them.

Church

A character with a Passion for the Church is devoted to the hierarchy of
a religious institution, most commonly the Asrian church under the
direction of the Matriarch.

EXAMPLE: High Chaplain Farrazin, Guardian of the Faith of Gallinea, is a
very devout man, yes. But ultimately his loyalty is less to the
teachings of the goddess Essere than to her church. Raised in an Asrian
orphanage, Farrazin rose through the ranks to become the most powerful
chaplain in Lutetia – and there’s nothing he won’t do for the Church of
Essere.

CHURCH, INVERTED: You despise all that the Church stands for, seeing
them as one of the greatest threats to your life and those of others.

Country

Passion for one’s Country is usually, although not always, the same as a
Passion for the ruler of that country. The Passions may conflict if one
has Loyalty toward one group or cause who opposes the current
government.

EXAMPLE: Baudouin de Longpre, the duke of Rhodope, is one of the rare
male heads of a province. As the oldest child of his parents, who had no
daughter to inherent the throne, he became duke upon his mother’s death.
The Rhodope family have supported the Throne for generations; they were
loyal to the late Queen Elisse III and remain steadfast loyalists to her
daughter, Queen Mariana II. The crown is more than the head that wears
it.

COUNTRY, INVERTED: Your country has done you wrong – either through
deliberate malice or “benign” neglect. Your ire may be directed against
all people of that nation, or just against the ruling parties.

Faith

As contrasted with Passion for the Church, Passion for one’s Faith is
less about the religious organization and more about the beliefs. It’s
possible (and quite common) to have both Passions, or also to have just
one or the other.

Devrans usually have a Passion for Faith but no Passion for the Church,
because worship of the Desert Mother isn’t based around a complex church
hierarchy as with the Asrians.

EXAMPLE: Matriarch Isabene de la Justicia, Bride of the Sun, is the head
of the Asrian church – some say she practically _is_ the church.
However, her strongest commitment is to her deity and (ceremonial) wife,
Essere, goddess of the Sun.

FAITH, INVERTED: You reject the Faith that once filled your heart with
joy. No longer a true believer, you work to convert others to leave that
religion just as you have.

Family

Characters with strong familial ties have a Passion for Family. This can
include one’s extended family and household, or may just be one’s
immediate family – such as parents or children.

EXAMPLE: Prince Jean-Remy is not merely Queen Mariana’s favorite uncle,
but is also Gallinea’s spymaster and head of Her Majesty’s Secret
Service. Haunted by his failure to detect and thwart the assassination
of his sister Queen Elisse and niece Jehanne, Jean-Remy would do
whatever it takes to prevent harm to any of his family.

FAMILY, INVERTED: You’re the one decent person in a family of terrible
people – or perhaps the only terrible person in a family of saints.
You’re determined to prove to your kin that they were always wrong about
you.

Friends

Some people are very faithful to their Friends and would do anything for
them – even die for them in some cases. You can decide if this applies
to all your character’s friends or just her closest friends.

EXAMPLE: Gabriana Secouriste is a young member of the Queen’s Cavaliers.
Personable and easy-going, she makes friends easily and is slow to lose
them.

FRIENDS, INVERTED: You keep to yourself and don’t form any friendships.
Why? Because at one time in the past, you felt horribly betrayed by
someone you trusted, and it’s hard for you to call anyone “friend”
again, no matter how nicely they’re acting.

Justice

The cause of Justice is a higher calling to right that which is wrong in
the world. The Passion may stem from an innate sense of right and wrong,
but more commonly it is a reaction to some act of terrible injustice
that has been perpetrated against the character or the ones she holds
dear.

EXAMPLE: Andreos Grimani, the High Elector of Ekalia, began his public
service as a member of the Vigiles Urbani in his home polis of Imera. He
went on to become a judge, before retiring to enter politics. First
elected to the Plenum 15 years ago, he became the ranking Elector of
Imera, then the Senior Elector of Justice, and finally the High Elector
– a position he has held now for three years. Andreos is known for his
strong drive toward justice as well as his detailed knowledge of the
laws of Ekalia and neighboring countries.

JUSTICE, INVERTED: The concepts of fairness and justice are a lie
designed to keep us all docile sheep. Flaunting the law through blatant
displays of criminal activity is your favorite way to subvert the status
quo.

Knowledge

Dedication to the pursuit of Knowledge can be expressed through a desire
to learn the truth behind mysteries, to explore the world, or to learn
all that can be learned.

EXAMPLE: As a princess, Mariana of Gallinea was much more interested in
scientific pursuits and clockwork engineering than she was in courtly
rituals and noble intrigues. She was a top student at the Royal
Gallinean Academy of Sciences when her mother and older sister were
assassinated, forcing her to take up the Crown. In truth, she’d really
rather be in a laboratory than in the royal palace.

KNOWLEDGE, INVERTED: There are some things that the common people were
not meant to know. Only you can be fully trusted with these secrets, and
you’ll do what’s necessary to stop that Knowledge from falling into the
wrong hands.

Love

Romance is the most common expression of a Passion for Love, although
there are other types of Love that qualify. Love may be for a single
person, or someone’s heart may be divided among many loves.

EXAMPLE: Prince-Father Michel Aubene, the widower of late Queen Elisse
III and father of current Queen Mariana II, was very much in love with
his wife, and she with him. When they first met, she was not impressed
with the rich southern boy who came to “play cavalier” in Lutetia and
guard then-Princess Elie. After she saved him during an attack on her
life, love soon blossomed. Even the dark bonds of death can’t quell the
love Michel feels for Elisse.

LOVE, INVERTED: Love hurts, scars, wounds, and marks. You knew you’d
never love that way again, and now you’re all out of love. All you want
is someone who won’t hurt you, won’t hurt you no more. But does that
person even exist?

Loyalty

The Passion of Loyalty is about dedication to a specific person or
group. You must specify who is the subject of your character’s Loyalty
if you choose this Passion. You might not actually like the people
you’re loyal to, but this isn’t about friendship but honor.

EXAMPLE: Martine Deveaux was once a faithful and loyal member of the
Queen’s Cavaliers, willing to die for the organization and those within
it. After a disastrous mission with the Cavaliers where she was made the
scapegoat, she turned on her former companians. Now a mercenary
assassin, Martine hates the Cavaliers as much as she used to love them.
This is now an example of an inverted passion.

LOYALTY, INVERTED: You can’t trust anyone. They might demand your
loyalty or pledge it to you, but no one is actually faithful. Be on
guard, for anyone may betray you at any time.

Lust

The Passion of Lust is about following one’s baser desires, usually
expressed through sexual pleasure. Characters who are Passionate about
Lust can be flirty, teasing, or promiscuous.

EXAMPLE: Genevieve de Longpre, eldest daughter of the Duke of Rhodope,
is renowned for her string of love affairs – most of which ended poorly.
It’s said she has at least one girl in every port, and perhaps even
more! Hopefully they won’t all meet at the same time.

LUST, INVERTED: Actually, it’s about ethics in sexual relationships.
You’re one of the good people, and yet the objects of your desire keep
gravitating away from you and toward inferior mates! They’ll pay for
making you involuntarily celibate.

Pride

A Passion for Pride means a character is highly focused on her own
dignity and reputation. Affronts to such Pride are met with strong
challenges, as such things are not to be tolerated.

EXAMPLE: Although only 13 years old, Prince Philippe of Gallinea has
more pride than an entire village of Scanbrians. The youngest grandchild
of late Queen Elisse III and nephew of the current Queen, he firmly
knows he is the most important person in Lutetia, save his aunt Mariana.
And sometimes even more important, he believes.

PRIDE, INVERTED: Life feels like a succession of failures, but that’s
okay – you deserve such misery, right? The best you can hope for is to
scrape by, surviving. Sure, it would be really nice if things turned
around, but how likely is that to happen?

Wealth

Individuals with a Passion for Wealth are focused on the acquisition,
maintenance, and spending of sums of money. Some come from poor
backgrounds and wish to move beyond their humble beginnings, while
others are rich misers who count every penny.

EXAMPLE: Jennevive d’Angelet is the Duchess of Scanbria and head of the
richest family in the north of Gallinea. She and her husband, Lord
Gerhardt, are well-known throughout the City of Scanbreille for their
parsimonious ways, although rumors circulate that she is saving up for a
major purchase. What that might be, no one is sure.

WEALTH, INVERTED: Money? Who needs money? It just leads to temptation.
You give all of yours away as soon as you get it, usually to worthy
charities or individuals. You might even steal from the wealthy to give
to the impoverished.

Personifications

A Personification is someone who represents, to that character, the
associated Passion – for good or for ill. 

For example, someone with a Passion for family may think of her beloved
mother who taught them how to hunt – or she could think of her
overbearing grandfather who always demanded more than she could provide.
Someone with a Passion for Country could be intensely loyal to the Queen
herself, or could idolize a revolutionary writer from last century.

Personifications are a way to tie your character to the world and
provide the MJ with non-player characters for you to interact with. A
Personification could be living or dead, an existing NPC or a completely
new one created by the player.

EXAMPLE: Dani has the following Passions: Loyalty D12, Pride D10,
Country D8, Love D6.

Her Personification of Loyalty is Sir Pierre du Prowe, an older member
of the Queen’s Cavaliers who taught her how to swordfight. Dani’s Pride
is personified in her rival, Elise Raymonde, another cavalier recruit
whose skill with the blade matches her own. For Country, Dani looks to
the Queen of Gallinea herself, Marianna, as embodying all that is good
and right in her home nation. And for Love, she can’t help but think of
the peasant girl Hersent who she grew up with, her first crush.

MJ’s Toolbox: Passion Rolls

In addition to using Passions to earn or spend Style Points, you can
have players make a Passion Roll at the beginning of a game session.
Such rolls give hints as to what is on the character’s mind at the
moment and a way to challenge that character’s motivations in a
meaningful way.

To make a Passion Roll, a player rolls all of the dice for her Passions
– a D6, a D8, a D10, and a D12. The die that rolls the highest indicates
which Passion is in play for that session.

_Example:_ Dani has the following Passions: Loyalty D12, Pride D10,
Country D8, Love D6. She rolls her Passion dice, getting these results:

D12: 5, D10: 7, D8: 6, D6: 3

The high roll is the 7 and it’s on the D10. Her D10 Passion is Pride,
which means that Dani may face a situation where her Pride is tested.

One of the simplest things to do is to have the player’s Personification
of that Passion make an appearance, or a story hook related to that
Personification. In some cases it may not be possible – such as a
long-dead grandparent – but even then, it pays to get creative. Maybe
the character finds a long-lost letter, meets up with an old enemy of
her grandparent, or even has a portentious dream about her ancestor.

The Passion Roll is a tool for improvising roleplay and shouldn’t be
seen as a constraint on your storylines – you can make the result of the
roll as important or unimportant as you wish.

If your style as an MJ runs toward planning instead improvisation, you
can have your players make Passion rolls at the end of a game session
and use the results to decide what plot elements to introduce in the
next game.

In an ongoing campaign, it’s likely that the same Passion will come up
repeatedly. You can ameliorate this effect by removing from the pool the
die corresponding to whichever Passion came up in the immediately
previous session.

Changing Passions

During your character’s life experiences, her priorities may change.
After a game session you can make one of the following changes based on
what happened during that session:

-   Swap two “adjacent” passions, such as your D12 Passion and your D10
    Passion.
-   Invert one of your Passions.
-   Revert one of your inverted Passions.
-   Change out your D6 Passion for a Passion you don’t already have.

When you swap, invert, or revert your Passions, your Personifications
may or may not change; it’s up to you to decide.

Style Maneuvers

This is a summary of all the style maneuvers available to player
characters. Each class and nationality choice gives players access to a
different set of maneuvers; these are the only ones that can be chosen
at character creation.

Types of Style Maneuvers

There are three types of Style Maneuvers: reroll maneuvers, maximize
maneuvers, and conditional maneuvers.

Reroll Maneuvers

A REROLL MANEUVER LETS YOU REROLL YOUR ENTIRE DICE POOL. You can do this
immediately after you roll, or you can do it after your opponent rolls.
You ignore your original results and only keep the rerolled version.

Rerolling costs one Style Point, and you can repeat it if you have
enough Style Points.

Maximize Maneuvers

A MAXIMIZE MANEUVER SETS THE VALUE OF ONE DIE IN YOUR POOL TO ITS
MAXIMUM VALUE. You set that die aside and turn it to its maximum value,
before you roll. For example, if you maximize a D10, you set the value
to a 10. Then you roll your dice and calculate your result as if the
maximized value were one that you rolled.

The die you maximize must be one you include in your dice pool from the
associated specialty or item die. If you have a pool that consists of
1D8 (Verve) + 1D6 (Competency) + 2D8 (Lunge) + 1D10 (Weapon Die) + 1D12
(Advantage Die), you can use a “maximize Lunge die” maneuver only to
maximize one of the D8s from Lunge.

Maximizing a die costs two Style Points, and you can only have one
maximized die in any dice pool. You can’t a maximize maneuver after you
roll.

Conditional Maneuvers

A CONDITIONAL MANEUVER HAS A SPECIFIC CONDITION THAT MUST BE MET IN
ORDER FOR YOU TO USE IT. WHEN YOU DO SO, YOU ADD THE DICE FROM ONE
SOURCE TO A DIFFERENT DICE POOL. Adding the dice from a second specialty
doesn’t give you the Attribute Die, Competency Die, or Item Die from the
second dice pool, but it does give you a number of dice equal to your
specialty ranks. The size of each such die is determined by your
attribute; if you have +2 Lunge and your Verve is D8, then you add +2D8
to another pool as directed by the maneuver.

If you don’t have any ranks at all in a specialty but you’re Competent
with the appropriate Skill, you can instead add your Competency Die as
another Specialty die. If you aren’t Competent with the skill at all,
you probably made a poor choice for a style maneuver; you can add 1D6 to
the roll instead as a Specialty Die.

Using a conditional maneuver requires one Style Point. If you meet the
criteria for multiple conditional maneuvers and you want to spend the
Style Points, you use as many such maneuvers as you like on one die
roll. You need to decide before you roll, not after.

When you add dice from one specialty to another roll, that second roll
also becomes a pool of that type in addition to its own. In other words,
if you have a maneuver that lets you “add Husbandry dice to a Lunge”
roll and you spend the Style Point to use it, the roll is both a Lunge
roll and a Husbandry roll. This can allow for adding in additional style
maneuvers as a combo.

Maneuver List

-   A MIND FOR MONEY: When sums of at least 1 crown are at stake, spend
    1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Negotiate roll
-   AGGRESSIVE ASSAULT: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Lunge die to its maximum value before rolling
-   AGGRESSIVE DEFLECTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Parry die to its maximum value before rolling
-   AGGRESSIVE FISTICUFFS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Brawl die to its maximum value before rolling
-   AGGRESSIVE FULMINATION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Blackpowder die to its maximum value before rolling
-   AGGRESSIVE MOCKERY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Banter die to its maximum value before rolling
-   ALBIAN CAVALRY: When mounted with a backsword or sabre in one hand
    and the other hand free, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice
    to a Lunge roll
-   ANATOMICAL STUDIES: When working in a well-equipped surgical
    theatre, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Surgery
    roll
-   ANTI-TOXINS: When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend
    1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll
-   APOLOGETICS: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   ARISTOCRATIC BEARING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Social Rank die to its maximum value before rolling
-   ASTROLOGICAL CHARTS: When you know the date and location of a
    subject’s birth, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a
    Portents roll
-   AUTOMATIC FIRE: When using a clockwork weapon, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Clockworks dice to an Aim roll
-   BALLISTICS: When firing a cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll
-   BEATING A HIGH HORSE: When mocking someone of higher social rank
    than you, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Banter roll
-   BETTER NOT POUT: When giving or showing toys to children, spend 1
    Style Point to add Intuition dice to an Inspire roll
-   BIRD CALLS: When working with birds, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts
    dice to a Husbandry roll
-   BOMBADIER: When attacking with a Blackpowder weapon, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll
-   BOOKS OF THE SUN: When dealing with someone of the Asrian faith,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll
-   BOUNDLESS CREATIVITY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Arts die to its maximum value before rolling
-   BRILLIANT ANALYSIS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling
-   BROADSIDES: When firing a ship-mounted cannon, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Explore dice to a Blackpowder roll
-   CAMOUFLAGE MASTERY: When moving though the wilderness, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Explore dice to a Prowl roll
-   CARTOGRAPHY: When navigating using a map, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Calculus dice to an Explore roll
-   CHEMICAL CALCULATIONS: When working in a well-equipped laboratory,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Brew roll
-   COMBAT PANTOMIME: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Arts dice to a Block roll
-   COMFORTABLE DEBAUCHERY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Carouse die to its maximum value before rolling
-   COMMANDING PRESENCE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CONFIDENCE GAME: When engaging in a swindle, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Banter dice to a Deceive roll
-   CONFIDENT FENCING: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll
-   CRIMINOLOGY: When investigating a crime scene, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll
-   CUNNING CAMOUFLAGE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Prowl die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CUNNING ERUDITION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CUNNING EVASION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Dodge
    die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CUNNING MISDIRECTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Feint die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CUNNING PREVARICATION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Deceive die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CUNNING THIEVERY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Larceny die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CURSE YOUR BETRAYAL: When defending against a feint, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Intuition dice to a Parry roll
-   DARING CHIRURGERY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Surgery die to its maximum value before rolling
-   DEADLY TOXICOLOGY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Poison die to its maximum value before rolling
-   DEFLECTING SHIELD: When using a buckler to parry, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Block dice to a Parry roll
-   DIEGAN SCHOOL OF FENCING: When fighting with a rapier or espada
    ropera in one hand and a dagger in the other hand, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Banter dice to a Parry roll
-   DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   DIVINE PROTECTION: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend
    1 Style Point to add Intuition to a Dodge roll
-   DO YOU EXPECT ME TO TALK?: When conversing with other spies, spend 1
    Style Point to add Banter dice to a Deceive roll
-   DON’T YOU KNOW WHO I AM?: When speaking with someone of Artisan
    social rank or lower, spend 1 Style Point to add Social Rank dice to
    a Negotiate roll
-   DOWN-N-DIRTY FIGHTING: When making a riposte while you have one hand
    free, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Riposte roll
-   DRESS TO IMPRESS: While wearing an outfit you created yourself,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Weave dice to a Negotiate roll
-   DROWNING MY SORROWS: When fighting in a tavern or while drunk, spend
    1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Brawl roll
-   DRUNKEN STAGGER: When drunk, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice
    to a Lunge roll
-   EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE: When treating someone who is suffering from
    exposure to the elements, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to
    a Treat roll
-   ENHANCED ENCHANTMENTS: Spend 2 Style points to set the value of one
    Charm die to its maximum value before rolling
-   ENVENOMED BLADE: When using a poisoned knife, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Poison dice to a Lunge roll
-   EPIDEMIOLOGY: When diagnosing or treating an unknown illness, spend
    1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to a Treat roll
-   EQUESTRIENNE: When mounted on a horse you care for yourself, spend 1
    Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll
-   FASHION! DODGE TO THE LEFT: When unarmed and facing an armed
    opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   FAST-TALKING: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Banter dice to a Dodge roll
-   FEELING NO PAIN: When you’ve been drinking, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Carouse dice to a Block roll
-   FIRST AID: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die to
    its maximum value before rolling
-   FLAMBOYANT COUTURE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Weave die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FOCUSED ATTENTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FOLK REMEDIES: When you have access to a garden, forest, or herb
    collection, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Treat
    roll
-   FOR THE DEFENSE: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   FORENSIC ANALYSIS: When using a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1
    Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll
-   FROM THE HEART: When performing or displaying a work of art, spend 1
    Style Point to add Arts dice to an Inspire roll
-   FURUSIYYA: When fighting while mounted, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Husbandry dice to a Parry roll
-   GREAT WHITE HUNTER: When attacking an animal, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Prowl dice to an Aim roll
-   HONED INSTINCTS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Intuition die to its maximum value before rolling
-   HONEST DEALER: When negotiating in good faith, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Intuition dice to a Negotiate roll
-   HOW DARE YOU: When attacking someone who has already damaged you in
    the current combat, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a
    Riposte roll
-   HUNTSMAN’S BEST FRIEND: When traveling with a hunting dog, spend 1
    Style Point to add Husbandry dice to an Explore roll
-   I’M A LOVER, NOT A FIGHTER: When being attacked by someone whom you
    find attractive, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Dodge
    roll
-   I’M INNOCENT, INNOCENT!: When trying to convince someone of your
    innocence, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to an Inspire
    roll
-   I’M TOO PRETTY TO DIE!: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Dodge roll
-   IFRANI SCHOOL OF SWORDPLAY: When fighting with a shamshir in one
    hand and the other hand empty, holding a qatar, or holding a
    jambiya,
-   spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Riposte roll
-   IMERAN SCHOOL OF FENCING: When fighting with a cutlass in one hand
    and a dagger or cinquedea in the other hand, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Dodge dice to a Lunge roll
-   IN COSTUME: When wearing a disguise or costume, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Arts dice to a Deceive roll
-   INCOMING FIRE: When avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Aim dice to a Dodge roll
-   INTERNATIONAL TRADE: When buying or selling wares that have been
    imported or exported, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice a
    Negotiate roll
-   INTO THE RIGGING: When on a ship or a boat, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Explore dice to a Dodge roll
-   INVENTIVE MATHEMATICS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Calculus die to its maximum value before rolling
-   IT’S MY CREATION: When repairing or using a device that you
    invented, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Clockworks roll
-   LANDSKNECHT TACTICS: When fighting with a pike, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Strategy dice to a Lunge roll
-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
-   LEARNED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Knowledge roll
-   LEGAL PRECEDENTS: When speaking in court, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll
-   LINGUISTICS: When trying to understand something in a language you
    don’t know, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Scholarship
    roll
-   LONGBOW HUNTER: When using a bow outdoors, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Explore dice to an Aim roll
-   LOST IN THE CROWD: When in an area with more than 3 other people,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll
-   LUTETIAN SCHOOL OF FENCING: When fighting with a rapier or
    colichemarde in one hand and other hand empty, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Arts dice to a Parry roll
-   MANNERS COUNT: When speaking to someone of at least Artisan rank,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Negotiate roll.
-   MARTIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll
-   MEASURING IS EVERYTHING: When following a recipe or a cookbook while
    cooking, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to an Arts roll
-   MINIATURIZATION: When creating devices of Portable size or smaller,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Perceive dice to a Clockworks roll
-   MISTRESS OF FASHION: When creating clothing or accoutrements with a
    base cost of D6 or higher, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a
    Weave roll
-   MOSTLY HARMLESS: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Dodge roll
-   MOUNTED COMBATANT: When using a weapon with the Mounted quality
    while mounted, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge
    roll
-   NATURAL COVER: When in an area with vegetation, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll
-   NATURAL FLAVORINGS: When using or neutralizing ingested toxins,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Poison roll
-   NAVAL HILT: When using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore
    dice to a Parry roll
-   NEVER AGAIN: When attacking someone who has already damaged one of
    your allies in the current combat, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Inspire dice to a Lunge roll
-   NOMADIC ARCHERY: When firing a bow, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Perceive dice to an Aim roll
-   OPTICAL FOCUS: When using a device to help you see, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Clockworks dice to a Perceive roll
-   ORACLE OF THE TWELVE: When dealing with someone of the Dodekarian
    faith or someone from Ekalia, spend 1 Style Point to add Portents
    dice to an Inspire roll
-   ORWAND’S PROVERBS: When dealing with someone of the Dualitarian
    faith, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Negotiate
    roll
-   PARROT’S NEST: When looking at things more than one area away, spend
    1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll
-   PARRYING SHIELD: When using a buckler to block, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Parry dice to a Block roll
-   POLITE FICTIONS: When speaking with someone of at least Noble social
    rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Deceive roll
-   POWDERSMITH: When creating or repairing a device with a blackpowder
    flintlock power source, a phlogistone furnace power source, or an
-   explosion component, spend 1 Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to
    a Clockworks roll
-   PRACTICED ALCHEMY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Brew
    die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED CRAFTING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED CULTIVATION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Husbandry die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED DIPLOMACY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED MANNERS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED RETORT: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Riposte die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED SHARPSHOOTING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
    one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRECISE BLUDGEONING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Cudgel weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRECISE SWORDPLAY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Sword weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRECISION MECHANICS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Clockwork weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
-   RECONNAISSANCE: When trying to spot other people, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll
-   REFINED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
-   RELENTLESS PATHFINDING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Explore die to its maximum value before rolling
-   RELIABLE SENSES: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll
-   RITES OF THE MOON: When dealing with someone of the Devran faith,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to an Inspire roll
-   RITUAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll
-   RURAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll
-   SAW THAT COMING: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Portents dice to a Dodge roll
-   SCALPEL’S CUT: When using a knife or chirurgeon’s knives, spend 1
    Style Point to add Surgery dice to a Lunge roll
-   SECOND OPINION: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll
-   SHADY NEGOTIATIONS: When dealing with criminals or conspirators,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Negotiate roll
-   SMUGGLER’S MOON: When in darkness or at night, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Larceny dice to a Prowl roll
-   SNIPER: When attacking from at least 3 areas away, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   SPELEOLOGY: When prospecting or exploring in caves, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Blackpowder dice to an Explore roll
-   STANDING ON THE SHOULDERS OF GIANTS: When inventing a device in a
    well-equipped workshop, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice
    to a Clockworks roll
-   STRATEGIC MANEUVERS: When commanding at least 3 troops, spend 1
    Style Point to add Explore dice to a Strategy roll
-   STREET FIGHTING: When using a knife or a cudgel, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Brawl dice to a Lunge roll
-   STRENGTH IN CONVICTION: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll
-   STUDENT OF ACCENTS: When trying to pass yourself off as someone from
    another nation, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Deceive
    roll
-   SUPERCILIOUS VITUPERATION: When insulting someone who is competent
    with the Culture skill, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice
    to a Banter roll
-   TACTICAL RETREAT: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Strategy dice to a Dodge roll
-   THAT’S ME IN THE SPOTLIGHT: When talking with someone who doesn’t
    share your religious beliefs, spend 1 Style Point to add Deduce dice
    to an Inspire roll
-   THE HORRORS OF WAR: When talking about war or battle, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Block dice to an Inspire roll
-   THE UNDERGROUND ECONOMY: When buying or selling on the black market,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Larceny roll
-   THERE’S NO NEED FOR VIOLENCE: When unarmed and facing an armed
    opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll
-   TRAINED EAR: When listening to other people speaking, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Scholarship dice to a Perceive roll
-   TRAINED ENDURANCE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Block die to its maximum value before rolling
-   TRICK SHOT: When using a bow or crossbow, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Feint dice to an Aim roll
-   TWIST THE KNIFE: When attacking with a knife that was hidden at the
    beginning of the fight, spend 1 Style Point to add Deceive dice to a
    Lunge roll
-   UBIQUITOUS SHIELD: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Rigid Armor or Shield item die to its maximum value before rolling
-   UNCANNY PREDICTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Portents die to its maximum value before rolling
-   UNORTHODOX TACTICS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Strategy die to its maximum value before rolling
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll
-   VERIFIABLE HYPOTHESIS: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll
-   WELL-TRAVELED: When dealing with someone from a foreign culture,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Etiquette roll
-   YODELER: When working with domesticated animals, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Arts dice to a Husbandry roll
-   YOU CAN’T GO HOME AGAIN: When dealing with someone from your home
    country, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Deceive roll
-   ZAMOROVIAN SCHOOL OF FENCING: When fighting with a szabla in one
    hand, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Parry roll

MJ’s Toolbox: New Style Maneuvers

As the MJ, you can create new Style Maneuvers that can be chosen by your
players.

REROLL MANEUVERS cost one Style Point and allow for one broad type of
roll to be rerolled. For example, you could create a maneuver that
allows a reroll on Wealth rolls, attack rolls with a rapier, or rolls
that use one of the character’s passions.

MAXIMIZE MANEUVERS cost two Style Points and allow one specific kind of
die to be maximized. Any given pool can only have one maximized die.
Examples of appropriate maneuvers include maximizing the Mount die of a
mount or a specific weapon die, such as a pistol. Don’t make the
maneuver too specific; that’s what conditional maneuvers are for.

CONDITIONAL MANEUVERS cost one Style Point and let the character add
dice from one specialty to another roll, but only under certain
conditions. The conditions you choose should be fairly specific and not
overly broad, but they should also be something that a determined player
could use at least once per game session, if not more often.

INITIATIVE MANEUVERS don’t exist, period. There aren’t any Charms or
Style Maneuvers that add to Initiative rolls. You probably shouldn’t
invent any, either; that limitation is there for a reason. You can,
however, create conditional maneuvers that add Initiative specialties to
other dice rolls.

Finally, you need to decide which classes, nationalities, or other
groups have access to the new maneuver. Perhaps it’s a lost sword
technique only taught to students of a retired blademaster, or it’s
commonly practiced by adult members of a house of the Ifran desert. It’s
possible you might decide that no groups can freely choose your new
maneuver, in which case players will need to pay the additional XP cost
when choosing it.

Players, you don’t have the option to create your own Style Maneuvers
whenever you want – but you can always suggest one to your MJ and maybe
she’ll like the idea!

Experience Points

Each session of _The Queen’s Cavaliers_, the MJ awards experience points
based on the following table. If faster progression is desired – for
example, in a campaign with limited sessions – the MJ can increase the
rewards by a factor of up to three.

  ---------------------- ------------------
  Base Per Sesssion       1 XP per session
  Each Major Scene         1 XP per scene
  Storyline Resolution          1 XP
  Faster Leveling             x2 or x3
  ---------------------- ------------------

You can spend your experience points to add new abilities to your
character or improve current abilities, as shown on the table below. You
must have Competency in a Skill to increase your Specialty rank, and
your Style Maneuvers can be chosen from your own classes, from your
National Styles, or from other classes with the MJ’s approval. Your
Specialty ranks cannot be increased beyond +2 until your Competency Die
increases (see the following section).

  Character Element                    Cost           Notes
  --------------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------
  New Skill Competency                 3 XP           
  Specialty Rank, per rank:    Equal to the new rank  
  +0 to +1                             1 XP           
  +1 to +2                             2 XP           (3 XP from +0 to +2)
  +2 to +3                             3 XP           (6 XP from +0 to +3)
  +3 to +4                             4 XP           (10 XP from +0 to +4)
  +4 to +5                             5 XP           (15 XP from +0 to +5)
  New Language                         1 XP           
  Weapon Prowess                       1 XP           
  Armor Prowess                        1 XP           
  Add a Style Maneuver                 5 XP           

Once you have spent at least 20 XP to improve your character, your
Competency Die increases to a D8, and your limit for Specialty ranks
increases to +3. Additional expenditures of XP increase your Competency
Die and Specialty rank limit further, as shown below.

Remember to adjust your Yield Limit each time your Competency Die
increases.

   XP Spent   Competency Die   Maximum Specialty Rank
  ---------- ---------------- ------------------------
      0             D6                   +2
      20            D8                   +3
      50           D10                   +4
     100           D12                   +5

Optional Rule: Training Time

Each XP spent typically requires one week of practice or training. This
requirement can be waived by the MJ if you’ve already invested time and
effort in activities relevant to your XP expenditure.


Classes

Your character in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ is a composite of two classes.
Each class provides you with half of your starting skill competencies,
specialties, weapon and armor prowess, social rank, starting gear, and
style Maneuvers.

The various classes can be divided up into three basic categories:
skilled classes, social classes, and fighting classes. These are shown
on the following tables.

For the most well-rounded character, choose a fighting class and either
skilled or social class; that way, you’ll be effective in a fight as
well as outside of one. Duelist is a good choice for a fighting class,
if you can’t find another that doesn’t really fit.

If you are mainly interested in creating things or helping people, you
can choose one skilled class and one social class, or two skilled
classes.

To make a mostly social character, choose a social class and a skilled
class, or two social classes.

Finally, if you want to build a character who excels at combat but not
at much else, choose two fighting classes.

You don’t have to choose your classes if you don’t feel inspired;
instead you can roll 1D8 for each one. Feel free to reroll if you don’t
like your original results!

  1D8   Class        Summary
  ----- ------------ -------------------------------------------
  1     Brigand      Outlaw highwayperson
  2     Constable    Duly appointed law enforcement officer
  3     Dragoon      Professional soldier in heavy armor
  4     Duelist      Expert swordsperson and fencing master
  5     Fusilier     Expert sniper and master of ranged combat
  6     Provincial   A commoner from the rural provinces
  7     Privateer    Swashbuckling sailor of the high seas
  8     Veteran      Experienced soldier and person-at-arms

  : Fighting Classes

  1D8   Class         Summary
  ----- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  1     Alchemist     Combines science and magick to create draughts
  2     Charmweaver   Weaves magick charms into custom attire
  3     Chirurgeon    Healer and surgeon
  4     Explorer      Leaves civilization behind to seek out a new world
  5     Mechanician   Creates and maintains clockwork machines
  6     Virtuosa      Prodigy in the arts or music
  7     Visionary     Genius Renaissance woman or man
  8     Witch         Heir to a long tradition of folk magic

  : Skilled Classes

  1D8   Class         Summary
  ----- ------------- --------------------------------------------------
  1     Barrister     Represents clients in a court of law
  2     Chaplain      Clergy of the Asrian faith
  3     Charlatan     Mountebank out to swindle the populace
  4     Courtier      Member of the Royal Court
  5     Dogsbody      Faithful manservant and henchperson
  6     Envoy         Ambassador for a national or regional government
  7     Provocateur   Mysterious spy with hidden motives
  8     Speaker       Zealous demagogue of the Desert Mother

  : Social Classes

Additional Classes

In Chapter Four: The Setting, additional classes for each of Gallinea’s
neighbors are described. Those are:

  Country          Classes
  ---------------- -------------------------
  Albia            Huntsman, Pilgrim
  Dragosa          Hanaster, Lexicographer
  Ekalia           Parroteer, Sybil
  Ondala           Cocinera, Theologian
  Talania          Skomorokh, Toymaker
  Varendia         Engineer, Mountaineer
  Northern Ifran   Faris, Stargazer
  Western Ifran    Collier, Moon-Curser

  : Additional Classes

Each of these classes adds a specific cultural flavor. If your character
is not from the listed country, talk to the MJ to see if you can still
choose one of these classes.

Class Descriptions

The Duelist

A Duelist is a swashbuckling swordfighter who lives by her wits and her
skill at her blade. She may be a member of the Queen’s Cavaliers, or a
rival organization, or may be a freelance fencer who runs her own
dueling school. Quite a few actors have been known to take up dueling as
well.

Duelist is appropriate to accompany any other class in _The Queen’s
Cavalier._ As swordfighting is so prevalent in the game, the Duelist
class is a natural choice for most appropriate character concepts.
That’s why they’re presented out of alphabetical order here.

In other words, if you can’t decide on a second class, choose Duelist.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Any
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Any

Duelist Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Dueling, Military, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Defense (Parry +1, Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1,
    Riposte +1, Feint +1), Streetwise (Banter +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible, Shield
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Swashbuckler outfit (cavalier hat, doublet, soldier’s
    gloves, breeches, boots, cape), buckler (Shield +1D8), rapier (Sword
    +1D8)

Duelist Maneuvers

-   CONFIDENT FENCING: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll
-   DEFLECTING SHIELD: When using a Shield to parry, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Block dice to a Parry roll
-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
-   PRACTICED RETORT: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Riposte die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRECISE SWORDPLAY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Sword weapon die to its maximum value before rolling

The Alchemist

Using techniques perfected in the old Qartan Empire, Alchemists brew
potions, poisons, and antidotes based on scientific principles. They can
produce a variety of effects, ranging from healing to magical abilities.

Most Alchemists are successful merchants, many running small
apothecaries to vend their wares.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Charlatan, Chirurgeon, Mechanician, Visionary,
    Witch
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth

Alchemist Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Science
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Scholarship +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1),
    Magicks (Brew +1), Medicine (Treat +1, Poison +1), Science (Calculus
    +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s
    gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), 8 supplies of alchemical
    ingredients, 2 doses of poison antidote, alchemy tools (Brew, Poison
    +1D6)

Alchemist Maneuvers

-   ANTI-TOXINS: When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend
    1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll
-   CHEMICAL CALCULATIONS: When working in a well-equipped laboratory,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Brew roll
-   CUNNING ERUDITION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling
-   DEADLY TOXICOLOGY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Poison die to its maximum value before rolling
-   RITUAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll

The Barrister

When someone is accused of a crime anywhere in Elara or wishes to sue
another person, she will usually be represented in court by a Barrister.
Barristers have special training in the law and court procedures, and
are skilled at speaking before a magistrate.

Some Barristers work for the Crown and prosecute lawbreakers, while
others can be hired by those with enough money – usually only the rich.
A recent and controversial policy in Gallinea allows for the indigent
poor to be represented by public defenders, paid for by the Crown.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Chaplain, Constable, Courtier, Envoy, Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Family, Justice, Loyalty, Pride

Barrister Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Etiquette +1, Scholarship +1), Interaction
    (Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Observation (Deduce +1), Streetwise
    (Banter +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves,
    skirt, chopines), 6 law books (Knowledge +1D6, six legal topics)

Barrister Maneuvers

-   CUNNING ERUDITION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FOR THE DEFENSE: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   LEGAL PRECEDENTS: When speaking in court, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll
-   PRACTICED DIPLOMACY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Brigand

While Gallinea and most of the Elaran continent are long-settled, that
doesn’t always stop opportunists from engaging in banditry. The typical
Brigand in Gallinea is a peasant or even a minor noble whose fortunes
fell and they resorted to force of arms to make their living.

Not all Brigands are necessarily cruel; there’s a long history of folk
heroes who rob from the corrupt rich and distribute their loot among the
poor.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Chaplain, Dogsbody, Dragoon, Explorer, Fusilier,
    Privateer, Provincial, Veteran
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Friends, Justice, Loyalty, Wealth

Brigand Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Defense (Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Feint +1),
    Military (Aim +1), Nature (Prowl +1), Streetwise (Larceny +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword, Cudgel, Bow
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible
-   SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   BONUS GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), leather
    jerkin (Flexible +1D6), hunting bow (Bow +1D6)

Brigand Maneuvers

-   CUNNING CAMOUFLAGE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Prowl die to its maximum value before rolling
-   MARTIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll
-   NATURAL COVER: When in an area with vegetation, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll
-   PRECISE BLUDGEONING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Cudgel weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
-   TRICK SHOT: When using a bow or crossbow, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Feint dice to an Aim roll

The Chaplain

A Chaplain is a clergy member of an organized religion, usually Asrian.
The duties can vary but many times a Chaplain is found serving among
military members or as a member of the court. Chaplains have minimal
training in combat but are skilled at interacting with people.

Most Chaplains in Gallinea follow the Asrian faith, devoted to the
goddess-empress Eserre. Dodekan priests from Achalia are also found as
Chaplains, although rarely outside of the Achalian Islands. Devraist
priests are known as Speakers, and it’s rare to meet a Devraist
Chaplain. Dualitarian Chaplains are sometimes co-classed as Speakers,
however.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Barrister, Chirurgeon, Courtier, Envoy, Explorer,
    Provincial, Veteran, Virtuoso, Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Church, Faith, Justice, Knowledge

Chaplain Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Arts +1, Scholarship +1), Interaction (Inspire
    +1, Negotiate +1), Observation (Perceive +1, Intuition +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Cudgel
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Priest outfit (clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier’s
    gloves, breeches, pantofles), 3 religious books (Knowledge +1D6,
    religious topics), quarterstaff (Cudgel +1D8)

Chaplain Maneuvers

-   APOLOGETICS: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   BOOKS OF THE SUN: When dealing with someone of the Asrian faith,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll
-   COMMANDING PRESENCE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling
-   HONED INSTINCTS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Intuition die to its maximum value before rolling
-   REFINED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll

The Charlatan

Charlatans are swindlers, confidence men, mountebanks, and other
tricksters who rely on their wits to defraud others. Many will hawk
medicinal cure-alls or sell fraudulent nostrums, only to vanish when an
angry crowd returns wanting their money back.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Alchemist, Dogsbody, Chirurgeon, Mechanician,
    Provocateur, Witch
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Family, Pride, Wealth

Charlatan Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate
    +1, Deceive +1), Streetwise (Banter +1, Larceny +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   BONUS GEAR: Crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s
    gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6),
    wagon, draft horse

Charlatan Maneuvers

-   AGGRESSIVE MOCKERY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Banter die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CONFIDENCE GAME: When engaging in a swindle, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Banter dice to a Deceive roll
-   CUNNING PREVARICATION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Deceive die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FAST-TALKING: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Banter dice to a Dodge roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Charmweaver

A Charmweaver is a magickally proficient artisan who weaves charms and
enchantments into fabrics. Most are skilled fashion designers and can
combine their artistic and magickal talents together into impressive
displays.

Charmweaving began in Gallinea and has spread throughout Elara in the
last century, as popular fashions with practical charms became
affordable for many common people.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Courtier, Dogsbody, Virtuosa, Witch
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Family, Pride, Wealth

Charmweaver Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Magicks
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire
    +1, Negotiate +1), Magicks (Weave +1), Observation (Perceive +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s
    gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), tailoring tools (Weave +1D6), 8
    supplies of fabric

Charmweaver Maneuvers

-   DRESS TO IMPRESS: While wearing an outfit you created yourself,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Weave dice to a Negotiate roll
-   ENHANCED ENCHANTMENTS: Spend 2 Style points to set the value of one
    Charm die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FASHION! DODGE TO THE LEFT: When unarmed and facing an armed
    opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   FLAMBOYANT COUTURE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Weave die to its maximum value before rolling
-   MISTRESS OF FASHION: When creating clothing or accoutrements with a
    base cost of D6 or higher, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a
    Weave roll
-   REFINED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll

The Chirurgeon

The science of medicine is the domain of the Chirurgeon, who both treats
diseases and injuries, and performs major surgeries. They are often
called upon to heal battlefield injuries, such as musket wounds or
arrows to the knee.

Chirurgeons often wear black bird-headed Plague Masks when treating
their patients; many of these are charmwoven to improve their surgical
skills. Chirurgeons are not adverse to using magicks when appropriate,
including alchemical remedies.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Alchemist, Charlatan, Courtier, Mechanician,
    Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Faith, Pride, Wealth

Chirurgeon Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Medicine, Science
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Scholarship +1), Medicine (Surgery +1, Treat
    +1, Poison +1), Observation (Intuition +1, Deduce +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (d8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Physician outfit (plague mask, surgeon’s gown, breeches,
    pantofles), chirurgeon’s knives (Knife, Surgery +1D6), 8 supplies of
    medicine

Chirurgeon Maneuvers

-   ANATOMICAL STUDIES: When working in a well-equipped surgical
    theatre, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Surgery
    roll
-   CUNNING ERUDITION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling
-   EPIDEMIOLOGY: When diagnosing or treating an unknown illness, spend
    1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to a Treat roll
-   FIRST AID: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die to
    its maximum value before rolling
-   REFINED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
-   SCALPEL’S CUT: When using a knife or chirurgeon’s knives, spend 1
    Style Point to add Surgery dice to a Lunge roll
-   SECOND OPINION: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll

The Constable

In the Gallinean justice system, the Crown is represented by two
separate yet equally important groups: the Constabulary, who investigate
crime, and the Crown Barristers who prosecute the offenders. The
Constables – and their counterparts in neighboring countries – enforce
the laws and protect the people from wrongdoers as well as capturing
those who commit criminal acts.

Most Constables are employed by the Crown or a local province, while a
few have retired and ply their trade as investigators for private hire.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Barrister, Dragoon, Duelist, Provincial, Veteran
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Country, Justice, Knowledge, Loyalty

Constable Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Dueling, Culture, Military, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Etiquette +1), Dueling (Riposte +1), Defense
    (Parry +1), Military (Brawl +1, Aim +1), Observation (Deduce +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword, Cudgel, Musket
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible, Rigid
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Guard uniform (capotain, soldier’s gloves, breeches,
    boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D6), flintlock
    musket (Musket +1D10)

Constable Maneuvers

-   CRIMINOLOGY: When investigating a crime scene, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll
-   BRILLIANT ANALYSIS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling
-   DOWN-N-DIRTY FIGHTING: When making a riposte while you have one hand
    free, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Riposte roll
-   PRACTICED SHARPSHOOTING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
    one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling
-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Courtier

Members of the Gallinean royal court, and other noble courts, are
Courtiers. They are well-educated, trained in etiquette and social
graces, and have preternatural skill for plotting and intrigue.

Courtiers revel in their lives of luxury, but all know that they only
continue to have such glamorous lives at the forbearance of their
matrons and patrons. A Courtier who is outcast from polite society may
return to take revenge upon a noblewoman or nobleman.

Magicks and the sciences are a draw to the Courier, as well as some
martial pursuits; nobles often have time to develop such skills at their
leisure.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Alchemist, Barrister, Chaplain, Charmweaver,
    Chirurgeon, Duelist, Envoy, Provocateur, Veteran, Virtuosa,
    Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Country, Friends, Lust, Pride

Courtier Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Dueling, Military
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Defense (Parry +1),
    Interaction (Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Observation (Intuition +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword, Pistol
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Noble (D10)
-   BONUS GEAR: Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves,
    skirt, chopines), riding horse

Courtier Maneuvers

-   DON’T YOU KNOW WHO I AM?: When speaking with someone of Artisan
    social rank or lower, spend 1 Style Point to add Social Rank dice to
    a Negotiate roll
-   POLITE FICTIONS: When speaking with someone of at least Noble social
    rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Deceive roll
-   PRACTICED MANNERS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling
-   ARISTOCRATIC BEARING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Social Rank die to its maximum value before rolling
-   RELIABLE SENSES: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   THERE’S NO NEED FOR VIOLENCE: When unarmed and facing an armed
    opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll

The Dogsbody

A Dogsbody is a common manservant or henchperson, one who assists
another in their escapades and only rarely comes up with a cunning plan.
A Dogsbody is often overlooked by those of higher social rank, and other
servants and lower-class commoners are more likely to talk to a Dogsbody
openly than to the manservant’s master.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Chaplain, Charlatan, Courtier, Dragoon,
    Privateer, Provincial, Veteran
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Family, Friends, Loyalty, Wealth

Dogsbody Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Nature, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1),
    Observation (Perceive +1), Nature (Husbandry +1), Streetwise
    (Carouse +1, Larceny +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Cudgel
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible
-   SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   BONUS GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes)

Dogsbody Maneuvers

-   COMFORTABLE DEBAUCHERY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Carouse die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FOCUSED ATTENTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling
-   LOST IN THE CROWD: When in an area with more than 3 other people,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   THE UNDERGROUND ECONOMY: When buying or selling on the black market,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Larceny roll
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Dragoon

A Dragoon is a professional soldier, usually a member of the cavalry.
Dragoons are found throughout Elara and beyond; they are usually more
serious and less flashy than the swashbuckling Cavaliers. Dragoons
usually wear heavier armor in the field.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Duelist, Dogsbody,
    Provincial, Veteran.
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Country, Justice, Loyalty, Pride

Dragoon Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Defense (Block +1, Parry +1), Military (Brawl +1),
    Dueling (Lunge +1, Riposte +1), Nature (Husbandry +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword, Polearm, Pistol
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible, Rigid
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Guard uniform (capotain, soldier’s gloves, breeches,
    boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D10), lance
    (Polearm +1D10)

Dragoon Maneuvers

-   AGGRESSIVE ASSAULT: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Lunge die to its maximum value before rolling
-   DEFLECTING SHIELD: When using a Shield to parry, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Block dice to a Parry roll
-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
-   MOUNTED COMBATANT: When using a weapon with the Mounted quality
    while mounted, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge
    roll
-   UBIQUITOUS SHIELD: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Rigid Armor or Shield item die to its maximum value before rolling
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Envoy

An Envoy is a diplomatic representative, usually of a country, province,
or other political group, although some represent religious groups or
trade unions. An Envoy character should identify who she works for at
the start of the game (although her allegiance may change during play).

Envoys are usually well-traveled and skilled at reading people and
reaching compromises.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Barrister, Chaplain, Courtier, Provocateur,
    Speaker
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Church, Country, Knowledge, Loyalty -

Envoy Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Nature
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire +1,
    Negotiate +1), Nature (Explore +1), Observation (Perceive +1,
    Intuition +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Noble (D10)
-   BONUS GEAR: Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves,
    skirt, chopines)

Envoy Maneuvers

-   DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
-   PRACTICED DIPLOMACY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED MANNERS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling
-   RELIABLE SENSES: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   WELL-TRAVELED: When dealing with someone from a foreign culture,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Etiquette roll

The Explorer

The current century is an age of exploration, and the Explorer is one
who is caught up in that zeitgeist, pushing back the frontiers on the
known world. Explorers are alternately courageous or foolhardy depending
on who you talk to, ready to leave their lives behind and seek out the
unknown.

Many explorers are Privateers, although some who move to colonize exotic
lands such as Elissia can be Provincials.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Chaplain, Privateer, Provincial,
    Speaker, Veteran, Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Country, Knowledge, Loyalty, Wealth

Explorer Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Military, Nature, Science
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Etiquette +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature
    (Explore +1, Prowl +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Science (Calculus
    +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Bow, Musket, Whip
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman’s gloves,
    breeches, boots), flintlock musket (Musket +1D10), bullwhip (Whip
    +1D6)

Explorer Maneuvers

-   RELENTLESS PATHFINDING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Explore die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CAMOUFLAGE MASTERY: When moving though the wilderness, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Explore dice to a Prowl roll
-   CARTOGRAPHY: When navigating using a map, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Calculus dice to an Explore roll
-   FOCUSED ATTENTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling
-   MARTIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll
-   RURAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll

The Fusilier

The Fusilier is a soldier specializing in the use of the flintlock
musket and other ranged firearms, including clockwork muskets and
pistols. A Fusilier can usually load, disassemble, and reassemble her
weapon while blindfolded.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Duelist, Mechanician, Provincial,
    Privateer, Veteran
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Country, Loyalty, Pride

Fusilier Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Dueling, Military, Nature, Science, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Defense (Dodge +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature (Prowl
    +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Science (Blackpowder +1, Calculus
    +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Pistol, Musket, Grenade, Cannon
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Guard uniform (capotain, soldier’s gloves, breeches,
    boots, tabard), leather jerkin (Flexible Armor +1D6), flintlock
    musket (Musket +1D10)

Fusilier Maneuvers

-   BALLISTICS: When firing a cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll
-   FOCUSED ATTENTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling
-   INCOMING FIRE: When avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Aim dice to a Dodge roll
-   MARTIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll
-   PRACTICED SHARPSHOOTING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
    one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling
-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
-   SNIPER: When attacking from at least 3 areas away, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll

The Mechanician

Fantastic clockwork devices are fashioned by Mechanicians, well-trained
artisans who can engineer complex machinery to accomplish repetitive
tasks. Their gadgets are in great demand throughout society, although
usually only the wealthy can afford the most advanced items.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Alchemist, Charlatan, Fusilier, Privateer,
    Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth

Mechanican Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Science
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Scholarship +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1),
    Observation (Deduce +1), Science (Blackpowder +1, Clockworks +1,
    Calculus +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Pistol, Musket, Bow
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Flexible
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Clockworker outfit (gearspring goggles (Perceive +1D6),
    smock, craftsman’s gloves, breeches, pantofles), leather jerkin
    (Flexible Armor +1D6), repair tools (Clockworks +1D6), 8 supplies of
    clockwork gears

Mechanician Maneuvers

-   AUTOMATIC FIRE: When using a clockwork weapon, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Clockworks dice to an Aim roll
-   VERIFIABLE HYPOTHESIS: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll
-   PRACTICED CRAFTING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRECISION MECHANICS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Clockwork weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   STANDING ON THE SHOULDERS OF GIANTS: When inventing a device in a
    well-equipped workshop, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice
    to a Clockworks roll

The Privateer

Not all Privateers are pirates; most these days are licensed by one of
the national governments or may in fact be part of a Royal Navy.
Privateers are skilled at sailing both sea-ships and air-ships, although
the latter are still quite rare.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Chirurgeon, Dogsbody, Duelist, Explorer,
    Fusilier, Mechanician, Provincial, Veteran, Virtuosa
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Country, Loyalty, Lust, Wealth

Privateer Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Dueling, Military, Nature, Science, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Defense (Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Feint +1),
    Military (Aim +1), Nature (Explore +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword, Pistol, Cannon
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman’s gloves,
    breeches, boots), cutlass (Sword +1D6)

Privateer Maneuvers

-   BROADSIDES: When firing a ship-mounted cannon, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Explore dice to a Blackpowder roll
-   CUNNING EVASION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Dodge
    die to its maximum value before rolling
-   CUNNING MISDIRECTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Feint die to its maximum value before rolling
-   INTO THE RIGGING: When on a ship or a boat, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Explore dice to a Dodge roll
-   PRACTICED FENCING: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll
-   NAVAL HILT: When using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore
    dice to a Parry roll
-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

The Provincial

Outside of the cosmopolitan sprawl of Lutetia are the provinces of
Gallinea – home to commoners and petty noblefolk, many of whom lack
education and refinement. These Provincials – and the Provincials of
other nations – are looked down on by the city folk.

Provincials who come to Lutetia often feel they have something to prove
when dealing with residents of the capital city; it’s not uncommon for
brawls to break out in bars because someone’s clothes or horse was
insulted.

A few Provincials are minor nobles and choose the Courtier co-class,
although they rarely are afforded the respect given to their urban
cousins.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Dogsbody, Dragoon,
    Duelist, Explorer, Fusilier, Privateer, Veteran, Witch
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Country, Family, Love, Pride

Provincial Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Military, Nature, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Military (Brawl +1, Aim +1), Nature (Husbandry +1,
    Prowl +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Streetwise ( +1Carouse)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Cudgel, Bow
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   BONUS GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), draft
    horse

Provincial Maneuvers

-   AGGRESSIVE FISTICUFFS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Brawl die to its maximum value before rolling
-   EQUESTRIENNE: When mounted on a horse you care for yourself, spend 1
    Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll
-   MARTIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll
-   PRACTICED CULTIVATION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Husbandry die to its maximum value before rolling
-   STREET FIGHTING: When using a knife or a cudgel, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Brawl dice to a Lunge roll
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Provocateur

A revolutionary, a spy, an assassin, a traitor, a conspirator – these
are terms used to speak of the Provocateur, a shadowy figure enmeshed in
plots within plots. Provocateurs are used by all nations of Elara,
although they are rarely trusted even among those who employ them.

A typical Provocateur does not advertise her profession, so she will
usually rely on her co-class for her public persona.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Charlatan, Courtier, Duelist, Envoy, Speaker,
    Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Church, Country, Love, Wealth

Provocateur Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Medicine, Military, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1,
    Deceive +1), Medicine (Poison +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1, Larceny
    +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Pistol
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Any one outfit, dagger (Knife +1D6), 6 doses of poison

Provocateur Maneuvers

-   CUNNING THIEVERY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Larceny die to its maximum value before rolling
-   DEADLY TOXICOLOGY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Poison die to its maximum value before rolling
-   ENVENOMED BLADE: When using a poisoned knife, spend 1 Style Point to
    add Poison dice to a Lunge roll
-   MOSTLY HARMLESS: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Dodge roll
-   SHADY NEGOTIATIONS: When dealing with criminals or conspirators,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Negotiate roll
-   SOCIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
    roll
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Speaker

A Speaker is an adherent of the Desert Mother, Devra, whose purpose in
Gallinea is to convert the masses. Devraism is legal within Gallinea but
is in conflict with the majority Asrian religion. For this reason,
Speakers usually keep a low profile while spreading their messages of
stoic living and opposition to secular authorities.

Few, if any, Speakers are loyal to the Gallinean crown; Speakers are
usually opponents for the Queen’s Cavaliers rather than allies.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Chirurgeon, Envoy, Explorer, Privateer,
    Provocateur, Virtuosa, Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Faith, Family, Justice, Loyalty

Speaker Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Magicks, Nature
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire
    +1), Magicks (Portents +1), Nature (Explore +1), Observation
    (Intuition +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Cudgel, Bow
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   BONUS GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), hunting
    bow (Bow +1D6), _Songs of the Desert Mother_ (Knowledge +1D6, Devran
    religion)

Speaker Maneuvers

-   COMMANDING PRESENCE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling
-   PRACTICED MANNERS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling
-   REFINED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
-   RELIABLE SENSES: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll
-   RITES OF THE MOON: When dealing with someone of the Devran faith,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to an Inspire roll

The Veteran

Gallinea and its neighbors maintain standing armies, composed of
professional soldiers who fight in their wars at home and abroad. The
most recent war between Gallinea and Albia lasted for a total of 20
years, ending 6 years ago with the marriage of then-princess Mariana
(now Queen Mariana) to prince Carolus of Albia.

Veterans of that and other wars are well-trained in the art of battle,
and if not currently part of a military unit, often join mercenary
companies or guard regiments rather than settle down into a civilian
lifestyle. - SUGGESTED CLASSES: Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Dogsbody,
Dragoon, Duelist, Explorer, Fusilier, Privateer, Provincial - SUGGESTED
PASSIONS: Country, Family, Friends, Loyalty

Veteran Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Defense (Block +1), Dueling (Lunge +1), Military (Aim
    +1, Strategy +1), Nature (Explore +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword, Polearm, Pistol, Musket
-   ARMOR PROWESS: Rigid, Shield
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   BONUS GEAR: Guard uniform (capotain, soldier’s gloves, breeches,
    boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D10), flintlock
    musket (Musket +1D10)

Veteran Maneuvers

-   LAST RESORT: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
-   MARTIAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll
-   PRACTICED SHARPSHOOTING: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
    one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling
-   RECONNAISSANCE: When trying to spot other people, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll
-   (SUBSECTION) STRATEGIC MANEUVERS: When commanding at least 3 troops,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Strategy roll
-   TRAINED ENDURANCE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Block die to its maximum value before rolling

The Virtuosa

A Virtuosa is a master performer or artist, creating beautiful works of
art, music, or drama. Virtuosas can be singers, actors, painters,
playwrights, sculptors, musicians, composers, poets, and other artists.

Being an effective Virtuosa requires training in the arts and history,
plus a great degree of innate talent. Virtuosas are well-respected
throughout society, especially among the upper classes.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Chaplain, Charmweaver, Courtier, Envoy,
    Privateer, Visionary
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Friends, Pride, Wealth

Virtuosa Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire
    +1, Negotiate +1), Streetwise (Banter +1, Carouse +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves,
    skirt, chopines), musical instrument (Arts +1D6)

Virtuosa Maneuvers

-   BOUNDLESS CREATIVITY: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Arts die to its maximum value before rolling
-   COMMANDING PRESENCE: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FROM THE HEART: When performing or displaying a work of art, spend 1
    Style Point to add Arts dice to an Inspire roll
-   I’M TOO PRETTY TO DIE!: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Dodge roll
-   IN COSTUME: When wearing a disguise or costume, spend 1 Style Point
    to add Arts dice to a Deceive roll
-   REFINED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
-   URBAN RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll

The Visionary

A Visionary is someone whose genius far exceeds that of the average
person. True Renaissance women and men, they are able to apply logic and
science ways that seem almost supernatural to many.

A Visionary may be a leader, or she may be a quiet follower who only
seeks to pursue her life’s work. Visionaries are usually well-educated
and can speak confidently on a variety of topics.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Barrister, Chaplain, Courtier, Explorer,
    Mechanician, Virtuosa
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth

Visionary Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Culture, Medicine, Military, Nature, Science
-   SPECIALTIES: Culture (Scholarship +1), Military (Strategy +1),
    Nature (Explore +1), Observation (Deduce +1), Science (Clockworks
    +1, Calculus +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   BONUS GEAR: Crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s
    gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), 6 books (Knowledge +1D6, one
    subject each), repair tools (Clockworks +1D6)

Visionary Maneuvers

-   BRILLIANT ANALYSIS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling
-   FORENSIC ANALYSIS: When using a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1
    Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll
-   INVENTIVE MATHEMATICS: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Calculus die to its maximum value before rolling
-   REFINED RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
-   TACTICAL RETREAT: When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
    Style Point to add Strategy dice to a Dodge roll
-   VERIFIABLE HYPOTHESIS: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll

The Witch

An ancient tradition that predates the Qartan Empire, the Witches of
Gallinea are experts at folk remedies, herbal lore, midwifery, and
reading omens. Witchcraft is officially tolerated in Gallinea, although
most devoutly religious people eschew contact with Witches unless
absolutely necessary.

Some Witches are publicly known as such, but most keep their rituals
secret from the authorities, remembering past periods of persecution.

-   SUGGESTED CLASSES: Alchemist, Charlatan, Charmweaver, Provincial,
    Virtuosa
-   SUGGESTED PASSIONS: Faith, Family, Friends, Love

Witch Qualities

-   SKILL COMPETENCY: Magicks, Medicine, Nature, Streetwise
-   SPECIALTIES: Magicks (Brew +1, Portents +1), Medicine (Treat +1,
    Poison +1), Nature (Husbandry +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife
-   ARMOR PROWESS: None
-   SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   BONUS GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), 4
    supplies of alchemical ingredients, alchemy tools (Brew, Poison
    +1D6), divination tools (Portents +1D6)

Witch Maneuvers

-   ANTI-TOXINS: When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend
    1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll
-   FIRST AID: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die to
    its maximum value before rolling
-   FOLK REMEDIES: When you have access to a garden, forest, or herb
    collection, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Treat
    roll
-   RITUAL RELIABILITY: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll
-   SECOND OPINION: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll
-   UNCANNY PREDICTION: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
    Portents die to its maximum value before rolling

Variants: Alternatives to Classes

You don’t have to make your character with classes; here are three
options that you can try, with your MJ’s permission!

Option: Random Backstories

This is an optional method of character creation that allows you to roll
randomly on a series of tables (or, with your MJ’s permission, pick from
the lists) to determine your character’s backstory, starting skills, and
proficiencies.

This system replaces the part of the character creation process where
you choose two classes.

When you gain a specialty, you also gain competency in the appropriate
skill. For example, if a result reads “Culture (Scholarship +1),” you
gain competency in the Culture skill if you didn’t have it before, and
you gain one rank in the Scholarship specialty.

As a starting character, you are limited to a maximum of +2 ranks in any
specialty. If a random roll would increase your ranks to +3 or higher,
the additional points are added to your customizations which you can
spend later in the character creation process.

Because you don’t have a class, you can’t spend your customizations on
additional style maneuvers during the character creation process, apart
from national styles. (When you gain enough XP, you can take any style
maneuver later.)

Regional or National Origin

Roll 1D12 to determine where you were born, your native language(s), and
the skills you picked up at an early age from your culture. Alternately,
if you know you want to be from Gallinea itself, just roll 1D4.

   D12 Roll  Regional or National Origin
  ---------- -----------------------------
      1      Lutetia
      2      The Jeweled Coast
      3      The Lowlands
      4      Scanbria
      5      Elissia
      6      Albia
      7      Dragosa
      8      Ekalia
      9      Northern Ifran
      10     Ondala
      11     Talania
      12     Varendia

Lutetia

You were born in or near the capital of Gallinea. You know your way
around the city streets, and you also received a decent education.

-   LANGUAGE: Gallinean
-   SKILLS: Culture, Streetwise

The Jeweled Coast

The Jeweled Cities along the coast of the Middle Sea are famous for
their clockwork skills.

-   LANGUAGE: Gallinean
-   SKILLS: Culture, Science

The Lowlands

You come from the farming provinces of western Gallinea, a region also
known for its folk magic.

-   LANGUAGE: Gallinean
-   SKILLS: Magicks, Nature

Scanbria

You were born in Scanbria, near the border with Varendia. Scanbria is
renowned for its skill at charmweaving.

-   LANGUAGES: Gallinean, Varendish
-   SKILLS: Magicks

Elissia

Not everyone in the West Ifran colony of Elissia is a convicted criminal
or descendant of such. You might be, though.

-   LANGUAGE: Gallinean
-   SKILLS: Nature, Streetwise

Albia

You were born in Albia, one of Gallinea’s closest rivals and now closest
ally.

-   LANGUAGE: Albian
-   SKILLS: Culture, Military

Dragosa

You hail from the multilingual, multicultural land of Dragosa.

-   LANGUAGES: Ekalian, Talanian, Varendish

Ekalia

You come from the country of Ekalia, famous for its swashbuckling
corsairs.

-   LANGUAGE: Ekalian
-   SKILLS: Dueling, Nature

Northern Ifran

You come from the deserts of Ifran, most probably from the cities of
Pitdah or Ubar.

-   LANGUAGE: Ifrani
-   SKILLS: Nature, Streetwise

Ondala

You hail from Ondala, the spiritual center of the Asrian religion.

-   LANGUAGE: Ondalan
-   SKILLS: Dueling, Culture

Talania

You were born in Talania, but probably don’t live there now thanks to
the encroachment of the Shattering Frost.

-   LANGUAGE: Talanian
-   SKILLS: Nature, Science

Varendia

The forests of Varendia, your homeland, are divided between rival feudal
ladies and lords who sometimes engage in open warfare with each other.

-   LANGUAGE: Varendish
-   SKILLS: Military, Nature

Parentage

Roll 1d12 to determine what your parent(s) did for a living. Some of
those skills were passed on to you, along with a small inheritance of
clothes and other belongings. The influence of your parentage also
determines your D6 passion, the first of your style maneuvers, and your
first social rank die.

   D12 Roll  Parentage
  ---------- -------------------
      1      Artist
      2      Clergy
      3      Criminal
      4      Explorer
      5      Merchant
      6      Midwife
      7      Nobility
      8      Retired Cavalier
      9      Scholar
      10     Tenant Farmer
      11     Unknown Parentage
      12     Veteran

Artist

Your parent had an artistic streak a league wide; you may or may not
have inherited that same artistic talent.

-   QUESTION: Which important personage was a patron for your parent?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Arts +1), Interaction (Inspire +1)
-   GEAR: 2 art supplies, crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock,
    craftsman’s gloves, breeches, buckled shoes)
-   PASSION: Love (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Social Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll an
    Interaction roll)

Clergy

One of your parents is a priest in the Asrian church, and you were
brought up in strict accordance with its religious teachings.

-   QUESTION: Which religious teaching was hardest for you to accept?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   LANGUAGE: Old Qartan
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +1)
-   GEAR: Crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s gloves,
    breeches, buckled shoes)
-   PASSION: Church (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Refined Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Culture roll)

Criminal

Your parents worked outside the law, perhaps as smugglers, thieves, or
bandits.

-   QUESTION: Who were the primary victims of your parents’ crimes?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Deceive +1), Streetwise (Larceny +1)
-   GEAR: Dagger (Knife +1D6), Peasant Outfit (shift, breeches, buckled
    shoes)
-   PASSION: Justice (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Social Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll an
    Interaction roll)

Explorer

You didn’t see one of your parents all that often because they were out
exploring the world. From their stories you gained a desire to see the
rest of the world as well.

-   QUESTION: What parts of the world do you long to see?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +1), Nature (Explore +1)
-   GEAR: corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman’s gloves,
    breeches, boots) (tricorne, doublet, craftman’s gloves, breeches,
    boots), mariner’s astrolabe (Explore, Calculus +1D6)
-   PASSION: Knowledge (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Rural Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Nature roll)

Merchant

Your family sold trade goods or specialty goods, and made a decent
living doing so.

-   QUESTION: What kind of goods did your family sell?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Negotiate +1), Observation (Deduce +1)
-   GEAR: D8 reward, crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s
    gloves, breeches, buckled shoes)
-   PASSION: Wealth (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Social Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll an
    Interaction roll)

Midwife

Your parent was a midwife, providing medical care for the poor,
especially those who are pregnant.

-   QUESTION: Whose birth did you witness while assisting your parent?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   SKILLS: Medicine (Treat +1), Magicks (Brew +1)
-   GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), 2 supplies of
    medicine
-   PASSION: Family (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Second Opinion (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Medicine roll)

Nobility

You are a scion of a noble family. It’s good to be rich.

-   QUESTION: What does your family think about Queen Mariana’s attempts
    to make society more egalitarian?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Noble (D10)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1)
-   GEAR: Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves,
    skirt, chopines)
-   PASSION: Pride (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Refined Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Culture roll)

Retired Cavalier

Your parent was a member in good standing of the Queen’s Cavaliers.
They’re retired now, possibly due to an injury (or just old age), but
they still were able to teach you how to use a sword.

-   QUESTION: What notable deed did your parent perform in the name of
    the Queen?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   LANGUAGE: Gallinean
-   SKILLS: Dueling (Lunge +1)
-   PROWESS: Sword
-   GEAR: Rapier (Sword +1D8), peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled
    shoes)
-   PASSION: Loyalty (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Confident Fencing (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Dueling roll)

Scholar

One of your parents was an academician, or possibly a teacher. From that
parent you inherited a lifelong love of reading.

-   QUESTION: What were the topics of your favorite books as a child?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Arts +1, Scholarship +1)
-   GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), 2 books (one
    topic each, Knowledge +1D6)
-   PASSION: Knowledge (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Refined Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Culture roll)

Tenant Farmer

Your parents were poor farmers, earning a living from the soil.

-   QUESTION: What did your family do to survive the year that the crops
    failed?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   SKILLS: Nature (Husbandry +1)
-   PROWESS: Cudgel
-   GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), draft horse
    (Husbandry +1D6)
-   PASSION: Family (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Rural Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Nature roll)

Unknown Parentage

You don’t know who your parents were; you are an orphanage or foundling,
raised by the church of Asria.

-   QUESTION: Who refuses to tell you about your parents?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)
-   GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes)
-   PASSION: Friends (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Urban Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Streetwise roll)

Veteran

One or both of your parents are retired soldiers who saw battle during a
war – and taught you the basics of how to shoot.

-   QUESTION: What happened to your parent in the war that turned them
    against violence?
-   FIRST SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   SKILLS: Military (Aim +1)
-   PROWESS: Musket
-   GEAR: Arquebus (musket +1D8), peasant outfit (shift, breeches,
    buckled shoes)
-   PASSION: Country (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Martial Reliability (spend 1 Style Point to reroll a
    Military roll)

Pivotal Event of Childhood

Roll 1d8 to determine a key event or situation from your childhood. This
will also assign your D8 passion.

   1D8 Roll  Pivotal Event of Childhood
  ---------- ----------------------------------
      1      A Death in the Family
      2      Accidental Discovery
      3      Bullied by Other Children
      4      Child Prodigy
      5      Kidnapped
      6      Leader Among Your Peers
      7      Teller of Tall Tales
      8      You Never Forget Your First Love

A Death in the Family

One of your close relatives died unexpectedly, and you had to grow up in
a hurry.

-   QUESTION: What did your relative tell you before they died?
-   SKILLS: Observation (Intuition +1)
-   PASSION: Family (D8)

Accidental Discovery

You found something valuable while out exploring by yourself, and this
brought you fame and wealth.

-   QUESTION: Why were you out alone by yourself?
-   SKILLS: Observation (Perceive +1)
-   PASSION: Knowledge (D8)

Bullied by Other Children

You were picked on by your peers, and you had to learn to survive their
cruelty.

-   QUESTION: What’s the worst thing that the local children did to
    torment you?
-   SKILLS: Defense (Block +1)
-   PASSION: Pride (D8)

Child Prodigy

As a child you were recognized as a genius. You had far from a normal
childhood as a result.

-   QUESTION: Which important person was impressed by your skills?
-   SKILLS: Observation (Deduce +1)
-   PASSION: Pride (D8)

Kidnapped

Someone stole you away from your home when you were quite small.

-   QUESTION: Why didn’t your family pay a ransom for your release?
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Negotiate +1)
-   PASSION: Justice (D8)

Leader Among Your Peers

The other children looked to you as their guide, even if you weren’t the
oldest, the strongest, or the smartest.

-   QUESTION: Why did you end up losing the friendship of your best
    friend?
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Inspire +1)
-   PASSION: Loyalty (D8)

Teller of Tall Tales

Even as a child you were known to stretch the truth in order to tell the
right story that others wanted to hear.

-   QUESTION: What’s the one thing you’d never lie about?
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Deceive +1)
-   PASSION: Artistry (D8)

You Never Forget Your First Love

Young love can be beautiful, and you’ll never get that perfect person
out of your thoughts – even if they maybe weren’t so perfect after all.

-   QUESTION: Why can you never be with your childhood sweetheart?
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Inspire +1)
-   PASSION: Love (D8)

Education

Roll 1D12 to determine what sort of formal training you undertook. This
will determine your second social rank die, many of your skills and
specialties, your professional gear, your D10 passion, and another style
maneuver.

If you want to have been apprenticed to a master crafter, you can roll
1D4 instead. For formal schooling, roll 1D4+4, and for on-the-job
learning, roll 1D4+8.

   D12 Roll  Education
  ---------- --------------------------
      1      Alchemist’s Apprentice
      2      Charmweaver’s Apprentice
      3      Chirurgeon’s Apprentice
      4      Mechanician’s Apprentice
      5      Asrian Seminary
      6      Fencing School
      7      Officer’s Academy
      8      Royal Universities
      9      Cabingirl
      10     Coven Initiate
      11     Military Recruit
      12     No Formal Training

Alchemist’s Apprentice

You developed draughts and other alchemical formulations under the
watchful eye of a master alchemist.

-   QUESTION: How did you stop your master from making a terrible
    mistake?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Magicks (Brew +2), Medicine (Poison +1), Science (Calculus
    +1)
-   GEAR: Crater outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s gloves,
    breeches, buckled shoes), alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6), 4
    supplies of alchemical ingredients
-   PASSION: Artistry (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Practiced Alchemy (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Brew die to its maximum value before rolling)

Asrian Seminary

You attended the Holy College in Ondala, training to be a member of the
clergy.

-   QUESTION: How did you first start to dabble in heresy?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +2), Interaction (Inspire +1),
    Observation (Intuition +1)
-   LANGUAGES: Old Qartan, Ondalese
-   GEAR: Priest Outfit (clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier’s
    gloves, breeches, pantofles)
-   PASSION: Faith (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Commanding Presence (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling)

Cabingirl

(…or cabinboy) You came of age at sea, as a junior part of the crew of a
sailing ship.

-   QUESTION: Why did you agree to support and cover up a mutiny against
    your captain?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   SKILLS: Defense (Dodge +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature (Explore +2)
-   PROWESS: Sword, Pistol, Cannon
-   GEAR: corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman’s gloves,
    breeches, boots), cutlass (Sword +1D8), flintlock pistol (Pistol
    +1D6)
-   PASSION: Loyalty (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Cunning Evasion (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Dodge die to its maximum value before rolling)

Charmweaver’s Apprentice

The draw of cloth and magick led you to study under a master
charmweaver.

-   QUESTION: Which noble was impressed your budding talent at fashion?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Arts +1), Interaction (Inspire +1), Magicks (Weave
    +2)
-   GEAR: crafter outfit (artisan’s beret, smock, craftsman’s gloves,
    breeches, buckled shoes), tailoring tools (Weave +1D6), 4 supplies
    of fabric
-   PASSION: Artistry (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Flamboyant Couture (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Weave die to its maximum value before rolling)

Chirurgeon’s Apprentice

You served as a physician’s assistant to a prominent chirurgeon.

-   QUESTION: Why did your mentor blame you for a patient’s death?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Science (Calculus +1), Medicine (Surgery +2, Treat +1)
-   GEAR: Physician outfit (plague mask, surgeon’s gown, breeches,
    pantofles), chirurgeon knives (Knive, Surgery +1D6), 4 supplies of
    medicine
-   PASSION: Pride (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: First Aid (spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
    one Treat die to its maximum value before rolling)

Coven Initiate

You were trained in the ancient mysteries of witchcraft that predate
even the Qartan Empire.

-   QUESTION: Why did you have a falling out with another member of your
    coven?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   SKILLS: Magicks (Brew +1, Portents +2), Medicine (Treat +1)
-   GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), divination
    cards (Portents +1D6), 4 supplies of alchemical ingredients, 4
    supplies of medicine
-   PASSION: Love (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Uncanny Prediction (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Portents die to its maximum value before rolling)

Fencing School

Swordplay comes second-nature to you now, thanks to your training in a
fencing school.

-   QUESTION: Why did your instructor agree to fight an ill-fated duel
    that led to their death?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   SKILLS: Defense (Parry +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Riposte +1, Feint +1)
-   PROWESS: Sword, Shield, Light Armor
-   GEAR: Swashbuckler outfit (cavalier hat, doublet, soldier’s gloves,
    breeches, boots, cape), rapier (Sword +1D8), buckler (Shield +1D8)
-   PASSION: Pride (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Precise Swordplay (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Sword weapon die to its maximum value before rolling)

Mechanician’s Apprentice

You were apprenticed to a master mechanician, creating complex clockwork
devices.

-   QUESTION: Which invention always eluded your master’s ability to
    create?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +1), Science (Clockworks +2, Calculus
    +1)
-   GEAR: Clockworker Outfit (gearspring goggles, smock, breeches,
    craftsman’s gloves, pantofles), repair tools (Clockworks +1D6), 4
    supplies of clockwork gears
-   PASSION: Artistry (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Practiced Crafting (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling)

Military Recruit

You may have joined voluntarily, or perhaps you were drafted during a
war. In either case, you were taught how to fight and send out on the
front lines.

-   QUESTION: What promise did you make to your buddy who never made it
    back home?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   SKILLS: Dueling (Lunge +1), Defense (Block +2), Military (Aim +1)
-   PROWESS: Sword, Polearm, Musket, Rigid Armor
-   GEAR: Guard uniform (capotain, soldier’s gloves, breeches, boots,
    tabard), smallsword (Sword +1D6), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor
    +1D10)
-   PASSION: Loyalty (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Trained Endurance (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Block die to its maximum value before rolling)

No Formal Training

You learned your lessons in the school of hard knocks. Nobody ever sat
you down and trained you; you had to learn everything yourself.

-   QUESTION: What knowledge did you gain that is unknown to most
    people?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Commoner (D0)
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Negotiate +1), Observation (Intuition +1),
    Streetwise (Banter +1, Carouse +1)
-   GEAR: Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes)
-   PASSION: Pride (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Honed Instincts (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Intuition die to its maximum value before rolling)

Officer’s Academy

You were trained as an officer the military, learning to give orders and
fight in a war.

-   QUESTION: What order did you give that led to the death of someone
    under your command?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6)
-   SKILLS: Dueling (Lunge +1), Military (Aim +1, Strategy +2)
-   PROWESS: Sword, Pistol, Musket, Rigid Armor
-   GEAR: Guard Uniform, Sword, Pistol, Warhorse
-   PASSION: Country (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Unorthodox Tactics (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Strategy die to its maximum value before rolling)

Royal Universities

You attended the royal universities in Lutetia, and received the finest
formal education in the world.

-   QUESTION: Why did a stranger pay for your expensive education?
-   SECOND SOCIAL RANK: Artisan (D8)
-   LANGUAGE: Gallinean
-   SKILLS: Culture (Etiquette +1, Scholarship +1), Interaction
    (Negotiate +1), Observation (Deduce +1)
-   GEAR: Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves,
    skirt, chopines), 4 books (each on a different subject, Knowledge
    +1D6)
-   PASSION: Knowledge (D10)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Cunning Erudition (spend 2 Style Points to set the
    value of one Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling)

Pivotal Event of Adulthood

Roll 1D12 to determine what key event or situation shaped your current
circumstances. This gives you additional skills, your final passion, and
a third style maneuver.

   1D12 Roll  Pivotal Event of Adulthood
  ----------- ------------------------------------------
       1      Clandestinely Recruited
       2      Crisis of Faith
       3      Exiled
       4      Falsely Accused of a Crime
       5      Honor Besmirched
       6      Looking for Love In All The Wrong Places
       7      Lost Love
       8      Murder Most Foul
       9      Revolutionary Invention
      10      Shipwrecked
      11      Sudden but Inevitable Betrayal
      12      War is Hell

Clandestinely Recruited

You were approached to join a secretive organization that doesn’t
officially exist, to engage in officially unsanctioned missions.

-   QUESTION: What have you learned that makes you mistrust your
    superiors?
-   SKILLS: Nature (Prowl +1), Medicine (Poison +1), Streetwise (Carouse
    +1, Larceny +1)
-   PASSION: Country (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Do You Expect Me To Talk? (when conversing with
    other spies, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Deceive
    roll)

Crisis of Faith

Your faith was tested and was found wanting, leading to a change in your
moral outlook.

-   QUESTION: Why was it a mistake to confide in someone else about your
    doubts?
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +2), Magicks (Portents +1), Observation
    (Intuition +1)
-   PASSION: Faith (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: That’s Me In the Spotlight (when talking with
    someone who doesn’t share your religious beliefs, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Deduce dice to an Inspire roll)

Exiled

You aren’t welcome where you came from, be it a province or an entire
country.

-   QUESTION: Why do you refuse to undertake the actions that could get
    your banishment lifted?
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +1), Nature (Explore +2), Streetwise
    (Carouse +1)
-   PASSION: Country (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: You Can’t Go Home Again (when dealing with someone
    from your home country, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a
    Deceive roll)

Falsely Accused of a Crime

You know you are innocent, but proving it is somewhat difficult.

-   QUESTION: Why is someone you trusted concealing the evidence that
    can prove your innocence?
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Deceive +1), Observation (Deduce +1),
    Streetwise (Carouse +1, Larceny +1)
-   PASSION: Justice (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: I’m Innocent, Innocent! (when trying to convince
    someone of your innocence, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice
    to an Inspire roll)

Honor Besmirched

An affront to your honor will not stand, and you will prove yourself by
your exemplary attitude – and hairtrigger temper when insulted.

-   QUESTION: Which dishonorable deed did you commit that nobody knows
    about?
-   SKILLS: Dueling (Lunge +1, Riposte +1), Interaction (Inspire +1),
    Streetwise (Banter +1)
-   PASSION: Pride (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: How Dare You (when attacking someone who has already
    damaged you in the current combat, spend 1 Style Point to add
    Inspire dice to a Riposte roll)

Looking for Love In All the Wrong Places

You’re great at finding new lovers, but not so great at keeping them.

-   QUESTION: Why does your ex-lover want to see you dead?
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Inspire +1, Negotiate +1), Observation
    (Perceive +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)
-   PASSION: Lust (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: I’m a Lover, not a Fighter (when being attacked by
    someone whom you find attractive, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse
    dice to a Dodge roll)

Lost Love

Poets say that your one true love comes along once in a lifetime. You’ve
found that joy – and had it taken away from you. Now you drown your
sorrows in cheap wine.

-   QUESTION: What is love?
-   SKILLS: Interaction (Negotiate +1), Observation (Intuition +1),
    Streetwise (Carouse +2)
-   PASSION: Love (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Drowning My Sorrows (when fighting in a tavern or
    while drunk, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Brawl
    roll)

Murder Most Foul

Someone close to you was brutally murdered and the killer was never
caught. You’re haunted by the thought that you could have prevented it.

-   QUESTION: Why do you feel responsible for your friend’s death?
-   SKILLS: Culture (Scholarship +1), Observation (Intuition +1, Deduce
    +2)
-   PASSION: Friends (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Never Again (when attacking someone who has already
    damaged one of your allies in the current combat, spend 1 Style
    Point to add Inspire dice to a Lunge roll)

Revolutionary Invention

You’ve invented something amazing that will revolutionize the world. In
theory. Mostly it blows up but that can be fixed.

-   QUESTION: Why does someone want to see you dead before you can
    perfect your invention?
-   SKILLS: Observation (Deduce), Science (Clockworks +2, Calculus +1)
-   PASSION: Artistry (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: It’s My Creation (when repairing or using a device
    that you invented, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a
    Clockworks roll)

Shipwrecked

Travel by ship is not without its perils, and you found yourself washed
up on a deserted island. You had to learn how to hunt with a crude bow
that you fashioned.

-   QUESTION: What did you have to sacrifice in order to survive until
    your rescue?
-   SKILLS: Nature (Explore +2, Prowl +1), Military (Aim +1)
-   PROWESS: Bow
-   PASSION: Family (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Longbow Hunter (when using a bow outdoors, spend 1
    Style Point to add Explore dice to an Aim roll)

Sudden but Inevitable Betrayal

Someone you trusted stabbed you in the back the moment you turned your
back on them. You can still feel the metaphorical (or literal) dagger
between your shoulderblades.

-   QUESTION: Who’s the one person you know would never betray you?
-   SKILLS: Defense (Parry +1), Dueling (Feint +1), Observation
    (Perceive +1, Intuition +1)
-   PASSION: Loyalty (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: Curse Your Betrayal (when defending against a feint,
    spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to a Parry roll)

War is Hell

You are the survivor of a bloody war and countless battles.

-   QUESTION: Why does one battle still haunt your dreams?
-   SKILLS: Defense (Dodge +1, Block +1), Nature (Explore +1), Military
    (Aim +1)
-   PROWESS: Sword, Musket, Flexible Armor
-   PASSION: Loyalty (D12)
-   STYLE MANEUVER: The Horrors of War (when talking about war or
    battle, spend 1 Style Point to add Block dice to an Inspire roll)

Example of Backstory-Based Character Creation

Dani decides to roll up a character using the optional random backstory
system instead of choosing two classes.

Regional or National Origin

Dani rolls a 12 on the table, meaning she’s from Varendia. She adds the
Varendish language and the skills Military and Nature to her character
sheet.

Parentage

With a roll of 8, one of Dani’s parents was a retired Cavalier. She adds
the Gallinean langague, skill competency in Dueling, one rank in Lunge,
prowess with swords, and the style maneuver Confident Fencing to her
character sheet. She also sets her D6 passion to Loyalty.

Dani also has to answer the question, “What notable deed did your parent
perform in the name of the Queen?” Dani decides that her mother stopped
an Albian airship from bombing Castenia during the Twenty Years’ War.

Pivotal Event of Childhood

Rolling a d8, Dani gets a 1, and finds that someone in her family died.
She decides this was her father, and that his unexpected death caused
her to grow up quickly. She adds one rank to Intuition, and sets her D8
Passion to Family.

In answer to the question “What did your relative tell you before they
died?” Dani decides that her dying father told her to never turn her
back on someone in need.

Education

Dani rolls a result of 11 on the education table, meaning that she
attended the royal universities in Lutetia. This gives her the Gallinean
language, but she already speaks it. She also gains competency in
Culture; one skill rank each in Etiquette, Scholarship, Negotiate, and
Deduce; Knowledge as a D10 passion; and the Cunning Erudition style
maneuver.

To answer the question “Why did a stranger pay for your expensive
education?” she decides that the Duchess of Castenia paid for her
education in recognition of her mother’s bravery during the last war.

Pivotal Event of Adulthood

Dani rolls a 1 on the final table, getting “Clandestinely Recruited.”
This gives her competency in Medicine and Streetwise, and one rank each
in Deceive, Prowl, Poison, and Carouse. She also gains Country as a D12
passion and Do You Expect Me To Talk? as a style maneuver.

“What have you learned that makes you mistrust your superiors?” Dani
distrusts her superior because she has been asked to spy on her fellow
members of the Queen’s Cavaliers.

Backstory Summary

Dani was born in Varendia to a Gallinean mother and a Varendish father.
Her mother had distinguished herself during the war between Albia and
Gallinea, and when she had completed her duty to the Queen, she married
a man in Varendia and settled down. Tragically, Dani’s father passed
away when she was young and she was raised by her mother.

Dani returned to Gallinea when she was old enough to study at the royal
universities in Lutetia, with her education paid for by a grateful noble
who remembered her mother’s courage. Upon graduation, Dani was accepted
into the Queen’s Cavaliers as a new recruit, and was also contacted by
Prince Jean-Remy, the Queen’s uncle and spymaster, and asked to report
back to him on the actions of her fellow cavaliers.

-   LANGUAGES: Varendish, Gallinean
-   SOCIAL RANK: Soldier (D6), Artisan (D8)
-   WEAPON PROWESS: Knife, Sword
-   SKILLS: Culture (Etiquette +1, Scholarship +1), Defense (Parry +1),
    Dueling (Lunge +1), Initiative, Interaction (Negotiate +1, Deceive
    +1), Medicine (Poison +1), Military, Nature (Prowl +1), Observation
    (Intuition +1, Deduce +1), Science (Calculus +1), Streetwise
    (Carouse +1)
-   PASSION: Knowledge (D10), Family (D8), Loyalty (D6)
-   STYLE MANEUVERS: Confident Fencing, Cunning Erudition, Do You Expect
    Me To Talk?
-   GEAR: Rapier (Sword +1D8), 2 peasant outfits, 4 books (Knowledge
    +1D6 about history of Gallinea, notable cavaliers, Varendish nobles,
    and types of poisons)

Further Customization

Dani is now free to spend her customizations to further shape her
character to fit the concept she’d like to play. Dani can also spend her
starting Rewards on additional gear (plus gets a simple weapon for
free).

Option: Playing Without Classes

You don’t even have to play with classes (or backstories) at all. The MJ
might allow this option if she wants everyone to have the most
flexibility in creating their characters.

A base character starts with the following:

-   Skill Competency in Defense, Initiative, Interaction, and
    Observation.
-   One language.
-   Knife Weapon Prowess.
-   Social Rank of Commoner (D0)/Commoner (D0).
-   One outfit and one common weapon.
-   30 customizations, replacing the 6 customizations that characters
    normally receive.

You can use those customizations in the following ways:

-   Add Competency in any one skill.
-   Add +1 rank to any Specialty which you have the related skill
    competency. Limits: You can’t have more than +2 ranks in any given
    specialty. You can’t assign more than eight ranks to the specialties
    corresponding to each attribute (Verge, Affinity, Guile).
-   Add one language.
-   Add one armor prowess or weapon prowess.
-   Increase one of your social ranks by 1, to a limit of Noble
    (D10)/Artisan (D8).
-   Add one style maneuver of your choice. Limits: You can have a
    maximum of six style maneuvers.

Once you have assigned your customizations, you receive four rewards
equal to your Competency Die, two rewards equal to your lowest rank, and
two rewards equal to your highest social rank. You can spend those
normally to buy your starting equipment.

Example of Class-Free Character Creation

Morgan decides she’s going to create a character who is all about
airships. She starts with the base character and then spends her 30
customizations.

SKILL COMPETENCY: In addition to the automatic skill competency, she
also chooses to be competent with Dueling (for mid-air swordfights!),
Military (for mid-air gun fights! and airship tactics), Nature (so
she’ll be good at exploring), and Science (since airships are pretty
advanced technology). This uses four of her customizations.

SPECIALTY RANKS: Morgan picks Parry +1 (mid-air swordfights!), Dodge +1
(mid-air gun fights!), Aim +1 (also mid-air gun fights!), Strategy +2
(airship tactics), Explore +2 (navigating), Blackpowder +1 (firing
cannons!), and Clockworks +2 (fixing a broken airship). She also chooses
Scholarship +1 (mainly for geographic knowledge), Etiquette +1 (customs
of far-off lands), Inspire +1 (officers should be inspiring, right?) and
Perceive +1 (for looking through a spyglass). Adding up the totals for
each attribute, she finds +6 ranks total for Verve (Parry, Explore
twice, Blackpowder, Inspire, Perceive), +4 ranks total for Affinity
(Aim, Etiquette, Clockworks twice), and +4 ranks for Guile (Dodge,
Strategy twice, Scholarship). This is under the limit of eight ranks per
attribute, so she’s good there. This costs 14 of her customizations.

LANGUAGES: Morgan decides she will be from Albia, and thus her free
language is Albian. She also gets a bonus language from her +1 rank in
Scholarship, and she picks Gallinean. She decides to also learn Ekalian
(because many sailors are from Ekalia) and Varendish (because the best
cannonsmiths hail from Varendia), and that uses up two more
customizations.

ARMOR OR WEAPON PROWESS: While she doesn’t think she needs armor
prowess, Morgan does want to know how to use Swords, Pistols, and
Cannons. She spends three customizations on those.

SOCIAL RANK: Figuring that airships are rather expensive to maintain,
Morgan pushes her social ranks up to the maximum of Noble (D10)/Artisan
(D8). This uses five of her customizations, and she’s only got two left
from the original 30.

STYLE MANEUVERS: Looking over the list of style maneuvers in Chapter 5,
Morgan finds two that thinks will be most appropriate for a future
air-captain like herself. She selects Powdersmith (when creating or
repairing a device with a blackpowder flintlock power source, a
phlogistone furnace power source, or an explosion component, spend 1
Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to a Clockworks roll) and Naval Hilt
(when using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a
Parry roll). This uses up her last two customizations.

STARTING EQUIPMENT: Naturally, Morgan chooses to start with a corsair
outfit, and for her free weapon chooses a cutlass. She receives rewards
of 4D6 (from her Competency Die), 2D8 (her Artisan social rank) and 1D10
(her Noble social rank). It’s not quite enough to buy an airship, so she
instead buys a cutlass (1D6 cost), a mariner’s astrolabe (1D6 cost), a
spyglass (1D6 cost), repair tools (1D6 cost), a double pistol (1D8 cost)
because it’s cool, and a deck cannon (1D10 cost) since she always wanted
a cannon. Doesn’t everyone? This leaves her with a 1D8 reward, which she
chooses to spend on four supplies of clockwork gears so she can repair
an airship or make nifty toys.

Option: Creating a Custom Class

If only one of the classes appeals to you, you can create a custom class
with the MJ’s consent. (Having two custom classes is not recommended;
choose one standard class in addition to your custom class.)

Make the following choices and write them down:

NAME AND DESCRIPTION: Decide what role the class will play in Gallinean,
Elaran, or Ifran society. How is this class different from existing
classes?

SUGGESTED CLASSES AND PASSIONS: Choose at least 3 suggested classes and
passions that fit the class concept. LIMIT: You can’t choose Duelist as
one of the classes.

SOCIAL RANK: If the class is primarily focused on combat, then the
Social Rank should be Soldier (D6). If the class requires formal
education or apprenticeship, then the Social Rank should be Artisan
(D8). Otherwise the class should probably be Commoner (D0). LIMIT: A
custom class can’t be Noble (D10) or Royal (D12) social rank.

SPECIALTIES AND SKILL COMPETENCY: Choose six different specialties that
make sense for the class; these all gain +1. The Skill Competencies
correspond to those specialties, with the exception of skills that
everyone is already competent in using. LIMITS: Classes never give
specialty ranks in Initiative. Each attribute (Verve, Affinity, Guile)
can have at most 3 specialties associated with it.

WEAPON AND ARMOR PROWESS: If the class would know how to use specific
weapons or armor types, pick up to four of those, total. Remember that
everyone already knows how to use a Knife.

BONUS GEAR: Choose one outfit that the class will receive for free. If
the class requires the use of one or more tools, pick one of those tools
as well as 4 supplies of the appropriate type. If the class has weapon
or armor prowess, choose up one weapon and one type of armor. Remember
that everyone gets one common weapon for free.

STYLE MANEUVERS: Choose six style maneuvers from the list of style
maneuvers that are appropriate for this class: two that allow a reroll
of one skill, two that allow one die to be maximized on a specialty
roll, and two that let you add dice from one pool to another under
specific circumstances.

When you’ve finished creating your class, let your MJ review it to see
if it fits her concept of the world and the campaign. She can provide
suggestions on how you can modify the class if she sees potential
problems with the class.

MJ-Created Classes

MJs, you can create classes too, and offer them as additional choices
for your players. You should try to follow the general guidelines given
for players, although you can customize the social rank, bonus gear,
armor prowess, and weapon prowess. You shouldn’t give a class specialty
ranks in Initiative, and a class shouldn’t have more than 8 style
maneuvers.


Skills and Specialties

There are 12 skills in The Queen’s Cavaliers, ranging from Culture to
Streetwise. Each of these skills has three specialties, corresponding to
the three Attributes of Verve, Affinity, and Guile.

Using Skills

To use a skill, first you determine under which specialty the task you
want to perform falls. Your dice pool starts with one die of that
specialty’s corresponding attribute; this is your Attribute Die.

If you have competency in that skill, you can add your Competency Die to
the dice pool. There are four skills that all player characters are
competent at using: Defense, Initiative, Interaction, and Observation.

You can have +0, +1, +2, +3, +4, or +5 ranks in each specialty, although
a starting character is initially limited to only +2 ranks. Each rank
adds an additional die of the same size as your Attribute Die to the
dice pool; these are your Specialty Dice.

Many specialties allow you to add an Item Die from a tool or item to the
dice pool as well, as described under the separate listings for each
specialty. Weapon Dice and Armor Dice are subcategories of Item Dice;
you can only add a Weapon or Armor die if you have prowess with that
weapon or armor. You can have only one Item Die in any given dice pool.

You might have a Bonus Die that you can include in your dice pool under
certain circumstances. Tag Dice and Advantage Dice are subcategories of
Bonus Dice. A Tag Die is temporary and is based on a word, a phrase, a
person, a place, a thing, or a concept. Your Advantage Die is used in
combat, and can progress from +1D6 up to +1D12. You can only have one
Bonus Die in a dice pool.

Factors that make your skills harder to use assign a Drop Penalty to
your dice pool. Such factors range from Wounds to language barriers.
Each Drop Penalty specifies a number of dice that are dropped – meaning
removed – from your dice pool before you roll. A Drop 2 penalty means
you remove 2 dice. You can choose which dice to drop, and so you’re
going to want to drop the smallest size dice.

Once you’ve finished constructing your dice pool, you roll all the dice
at once. You select the dice that resulted in the highest two numbers,
and you discard the results of the other dice. Then you see what the MJ
rolls on the opposition dice.

There are two types of opposition dice. Some are rolls of your
opponent’s corresponding specialty, such as her Defense (Parry) roll
against your Dueling (Lunge) roll. In other situations you might be
rolling against standard opposition, rolled by the MJ. Standard
opposition pools consist of three dice of the same size, from Easy (3D6)
to Very Difficult (3D12).

Standard Opposition

  Difficulty   Opposing Dice Pool
  ------------ --------------------
  Very Easy    Automatic success
  Easy         3D6
  Moderate     3D8
  Hard         3D10
  Very Hard    3D12

The total of your roll is the sum of the two dice you kept after
rolling. The success points generated by your roll equal the lower of
the two dice. If you beat the total of the opposition dice, then you can
spend those success points on the success table for that specialty.
Otherwise, your opponent can spend her success points.

You can usually buy a result from a success table multiple times, unless
it says otherwise in the description of the specialty. Success points
you don’t use are simply discarded when you finish buying the results
you want.

One of the most common ways to spend success points is to buy a style
point for 3 success points. You use style points to power your style
maneuvers, which let you combine together the Specialty Dice of two
different specialties, set one die in a pool to its maximum value before
you roll, or reroll a result that you don’t like. You can only have 3
style points at a time, so if you already have 3, you can’t buy any
more.

The skills, specialties, and their corresponding attributes used The
Queen’s Cavaliers are shown in the following table:

Skills and Specialties

  Skill         Verve Specialty   Affinity Specialty   Guile Specialty
  ------------- ----------------- -------------------- -----------------
  Culture       Arts              Etiquette            Scholarship
  Defense       Parry             Block                Dodge
  Dueling       Lunge             Riposte              Feint
  Initiative    Impulse           Vigilance            Timing
  Interaction   Inspire           Negotiate            Deceive
  Magicks       Weave             Brew                 Portents
  Medicine      Surgery           Treat                Poison
  Military      Brawl             Aim                  Strategy
  Nature        Explore           Husbandry            Prowl
  Observation   Perceive          Intuition            Deduce
  Science       Blackpowder       Clockworks           Calculus
  Streetwise    Banter            Carouse              Larceny

Skills and Specialties are described below, with a Success Table for
each Specialty. You gain a set of skills and specialties from each of
your classes (or backstory), and additional skills and specialty ranks
from customizing your character. As you gain experience points, you can
spend XP to increase your ranks in your specialties, or add new skills.

The Success Tables that follow are meant to be a guideline for you and
the MJ to determine what happens based on any given roll. They are not
meant to override the fictional narrative; a result can only happen if
it makes sense in the context of the story.

At the MJ’s discretion, a different table can be used for any Specialty
– or a result from any Success Table – for the price of one additional
Success Point. This allows for flexibility in player actions by
comparing against similar tasks, and using those results.

Generic Success Tables

The following Success Tables can be used in lieu of, or in addition to,
the specific Success Tables for each Specialty. The results should be
used loosely and with discretion, as some results might not be justified
based on the fictional context.

Non-Combat Skills in Combat

This table can be used to represent Skills which aren’t normally
intended for a fight (i.e., not Defense, Dueling, Aim, or Brawl) but
which end up being used anyway. For example, a Mechanician might attempt
to overload one of her devices or a Virtuosa could sing loud enough to
shatter glass.

OPPOSITION: The opposition dice can be anywhere from Easy (3D6) to Very
Difficult (3D12) depending on the MJ’s assessment of the situation.
Alternately, the target can defend with an appropriate Defense
specialty, if the MJ decides the Skill use is similar to an attack.

  Non-Combat Skills   
  ------------------- -------------------------------------------
  Time:               1 action
  Opposition:         Standard Opposition or Applicable Defense
  ++:                 Inflict 1 Yield
  +++:                Reduce Yield Taken
  +++:                Increase Advantage
  +++:                Gain 1 Style Point
  +++++:              Inflict 1 Wound

INFLICT 1 YIELD: Your opponent takes one Yield for every two Success
Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield
Limit, she is Yielded Out.

REDUCE YIELD TAKEN: If you have taken Yield, you can reduce it by
spending three Success Points per point of Yield.

INCREASE ADVANTAGE: You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already
have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of D12.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

INFLICT 1 WOUND: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds
than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one
to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.

Knowledge Rolls

Use this table for general knowledge rolls – for example, if a character
with ranks in Science (Clockworks) is trying to recall the name of a
famous Mechanician or a Chirurgeon is remembering the facts about a
disease. Each Specialty has one or more examples of knowledge rolls that
can be made with that Specialty, although the lists are not exhaustive.
MJs and players should be creative in how they use Specialties to make
knowledge rolls.

OPPOSITION: Characters automatically succeed on Knowledge checks, and
the success points generated indicate how much information they’re able
to recall.

  Knowledge     
  ------------- ---------------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Automatic Success
  +:            Recall Common Knowledge
  ++:           Recall Uncommon Knowledge
  ++++:         Recall Rare Knowledge
  +++++:        Recall Unique Knowledge

RECALL COMMON KNOWLEDGE: You can recall basic facts about the topic,
enough to hold a simple conversation about it.

RECALL UNCOMMON KNOWLEDGE: You are aware of some things that aren’t
common knowledge about the subject.

RECALL RARE KNOWLEDGE: You know something about the subject that only
comes from deeper study or experience.

RECALL UNIQUE KNOWLEDGE: You have firsthand knowledge of something about
the topic that only a few others share.

Standard Opposition Results

These results can be used by the MJ when a player’s roll against
Standard Opposition dice fails. As with other generic result tables,
these should be used with discretion, as not all results will fit the
fictional circumstances.

OPPOSITION: Standard Opposition is only rolled in response to an action
taken by a player character. If the Standard Opposition roll beats the
action’s roll, the MJ may spend the Success Points on this table, as
well as declaring the action invalidated.

  Standard Opposition   
  --------------------- -------------------------
  Time:                 Free Roll
  Opposition:           Specific Specialty Used
  +:                    Increase Difficulty
  ++:                   Inflict 1 Yield
  ++:                   Increase Tension
  ++:                   Mysterious Omen
  ++:                   Delayed Gratification
  +++:                  Grant 1 Style Point
  +++:                  Rude Interruption
  ++++:                 Unnecessary Distraction
  ++++:                 Challenge a Passion
  +++++:                Incredibly Bad Fortune

INCREASE DIFFICULTY: Step up one of the dice used in the roll, if the
player character (or an ally) attempts the same task. For example, if
the Standard Difficulty was Moderate (3D8), with one Success Point you
could step up one die, making it 1D10+2D8 on subsequent attempts. If you
spend three Success Points, step up all three of the dice.

INFLICT 1 YIELD: If the player character is attempting something
physically, mentally, or emotionally taxing, you can choose to inflict
Yield on her. Each additional two Success Points inflicts an extra point
of Yield.

INCREASE TENSION: You gain a D6 Tension Die if you don’t already have
Tension, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum of D12.
Describe how the tension in the current situation increases based on the
player character’s failure at the task.

MYSTERIOUS OMEN: Something ominous happens, perhaps foreshadowing a
future event. Players can attempt a Portents roll if they wish to try to
interpret the omen.

DELAYED GRATIFICATION: The player character (or an ally) cannot make
another attempt at the same task until a certain amount of time has
passed. If the task normally takes one round, she must wait for a
minute; if a minute, then for an hour; if an hour, then for four hours;
if four hours, then for a day.

GRANT 1 STYLE POINT: Assign a Style Point to one of your non-player
characters, usually a Minor or Major Opponent. Minor Opponents can have
up to three Style Points, Major Opponents can have up to six Style
Points, and other characters can have only one Style Point.

RUDE INTERRUPTION: The player character fails to complete her task
because someone rudely barges in, interrupting her. Choose one of your
existing NPCs or create a new character to intrude on the character;
this could even be a hostile opponent, although not a Major Opponent.
She won’t be able to resume her task until she manages to send away the
intruder.

UNNECESSARY DISTRACTION: An event happens nearby that distracts the
player character, causing her to fail on her attempt. This could be a
loud noise outside, a sudden wind blowing around some papers, a horse
that decides to bolt, or an attractive person passing by. If the player
character (or an ally) attempts the task again, she gets a Drop 2
penalty on the roll.

CHALLENGE A PASSION: Choose one of the player character’s Passions, and
a way in which it becomes challenged. Perhaps the Personification of the
Passion appears (as an NPC), or the player character remembers something
about that Personification (if not able to appear in person). Maybe the
situation changes so that the player character has to choose between her
values and succeeding at the task. Be creative! The game result is that
if the player character attempts the task again, add her Passion Die to
the Standard Opposition dice on subsequent tries.

INCREDIBLY BAD FORTUNE: Something goes disastrously wrong. A ship at sea
gets lost, a device being created explodes, a gun misfires, the guards
show up at the wrong moment, or the player character trips and falls in
front of an audience. The exact details are up to you, but they should
be serious without being directly deadly and possibly very embarrassing.
The player character can attempt the task again one she recovers from
the effects of her terrible luck.

Culture

The Culture skill includes arts, history, religion, language, mythology,
music, customs, traditions, noble families, and other societal elements
found in the cultures of Elara and Ifran.

The Culture specialties are often used as knowledge rolls.

Arts

_Verve Specialty_

Sculpture, music, painting, poetry, sketching, woodcuts, writing, dance,
acting, and other forms of art are used to convey the core values of
Elaran society. The Arts specialty includes not just basic knowledge of
artwork, but also the ability to create works of art and to perform
creative works.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate a piece of art, spot a forgery, remember the
name of a famous artist, identify tools and instruments used in art or
music.

CRAFTING: Create works of art such as drawings, poetry, paintings,
sculptures, plays, songs, opera, novellas, and more, as described in
Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

BONUS DIE: If you are performing an existing work of art, such as a
musical composition or a play, you can include the work’s Tag Die as a
Bonus Die.

OPPOSITION: Under most situations, an Arts roll will automatically
succeed and the success points will determine the quality of the
performance. Under less than ideal circumstances, Standard Opposition of
Easy (3D6) or higher may be required.

  Arts          
  ------------- -------------------------------------------
  Time:         1 minute or longer
  Opposition:   Automatic Success, or Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Musical instrument
  Bonus Die:    Tag Die
  +:            Successful Performance
  ++:           Increase Tag Die
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++++:       Encore, Encore!

SUCCESSFUL PERFORMANCE: You give a successful performance of a work, be
it already prepared or an improvisational performance. You can create a
one-word tag with a +1D0 Tag Die. This Tag Die lasts until the end of
the scene, and can be used with other Specialties as a Bonus Die when
appropriate. You can make one additional Tag with a +1D0 Bonus Die for
each success point you spend.

INCREASE TAG DIE: One Tag Die of your performance improves by one die
size. You are limited by the number of skill ranks you have in Culture
(Arts), as shown on the following table:

Maximum Tag Die

   Arts Rank   Bonus Die
  ----------- -----------
       1         +1D0
       2         +1D6
       3         +1D8
       4         +1D10
       5         +1D12

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

ENCORE, ENCORE!: You give such a successful performance that no one in
the audience will ever forget it, or you. Any Tag Dice from this
performance last for 24 hours and are automatically maximized.

Etiquette

_Affinity Specialty_

The Etiquette specialty encompasses general knowledge about the customs,
politics, traditions, and manners of the cultures of Elara and Ifran,
including the use of proper etiquette while in a noble court.

FOREIGN ETIQUETTE: When dealing with people from other countries or
cultures, you get a Drop 2 penalty on Etiquette rolls. If you do not
share a common language, the penalty increases to a Drop 4 penalty.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Identify a member of the royal court, read a heraldic
coat of arms, remember the correct form of address for a noble title,
recall court gossip about a baroness, cite the local laws and customs.

OPPOSITION: Under most situations, an Etiquette roll will automatically
succeed and the success points will determine the quality of one’s
behavior. Under less than ideal circumstances, Standard Opposition of
Easy (3D6) or higher may be required.

BONUS DIE: Add your own highest Social Rank Die as a Bonus Die when
making an Etiquette roll.

  Etiquette     
  ------------- -------------------------------------------
  Time:         1 Minute or more
  Opposition:   Automatic Success, or Standard Opposition
  Bonus Die:    Your Social Rank Die
  +:            Avoid Faux Pas
  ++:           Impress an Audience
  ++:           Improve Impression
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Pass as Different Social Rank

AVOID FAUX PAS: You communicate what you are trying to say without
making any social blunders.

IMPRESS AN AUDIENCE: You make a favorable impression on those who
observe you who have a social rank of Commoner (D0). You also gain a
+1D0 Tag Die that can be used in Interaction and Culture (Etiquette)
rolls as a Bonus Die until the end of the scene. For each additional
success point you spent, the social rank you impress increases by one.

IMPROVE IMPRESSION: You increase the Tag Die by one step for every two
success points you spend. The size of the Tag Die limited by your
Etiquette specialty ranks as follows:

Maximum Tag Die

   Etiquette Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  ----------------- -----------------
         +1               +1D0
         +2               +1D6
         +3               +1D8
         +4               +1D10
         +5               +1D12

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

PASS AS DIFFERENT SOCIAL RANK: You affect the mannerisms and presence of
a different social rank. You can pass as a social rank one higher than
your highest social rank, or as a social rank one lower than your lowest
social rank. Until the end of the scene, both of your social rank dice
are considered equal to the new social rank. You lose this bonus if you
commit a social faux pas or otherwise fail to act in accordance with the
airs you’ve put on.

Scholarship

_Guile Specialty_

In Gallinea, a well-rounded education is the mark of a civilized woman
or man. The Scholarship specialty represents your breadth of book
learning and ability to do research when necessary. As such, it is used
very often for knowledge rolls and rarely for anything else.

LANGUAGE: For every rank you have in Scholarship, you gain an additional
language prowess of your choice.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Recall basic historical knowledge, identify a spoken or
written language, remember a piece of trivia, name some of the most
prestigious universities and their professors, understand and disagree
with an obscure theological argument.

CRAFTING: Write research reports, translations, or non-fiction books, as
described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on your Scholarship to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Culture (Scholarship), as shown on the following table:

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time      Bonus Die   Scholarship Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- ---------------------------
  2 hours                 1D0                 +1
  4 hours                 1D6                 +2
  8 hours (1 day)         1D8                 +3
  16 hours (2 days)      1D10                 +4
  32 hours (4 days)      1D12                 +5

OPPOSITION: Use Easy (3D6) in most circumstances.

Scholarship

  Scholarship   
  ------------- -------------------------------------------
  Time:         1 Hour
  Opposition:   Automatic Success, or Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Book, report, or library
  Bonus Die:    Extra time
  +:            Research
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++++:        Teach a Lesson

RESEARCH: You gain in-depth knowledge about one specific person, place,
thing, group, or event for each Success Point you spend. You can only
learn things that someone has written down in a book.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

TEACH A LESSON: If you spend at least an hour teaching someone, she can
temporarily gain Competency in one Skill or language in which you have
Competency. This Competency lasts for 24 hours after your instruction
ends. For each additional Success Point you spend, you can teach another
student at the same time. A student can only learn one such temporary
Competency at any time, from any teacher.

Defense

The Defense skill is used in combat to avoid taking damage. Whenever you
are attacked, you can choose which of the appropriate Defense
specialties you will use, although depending on the type of attack, your
Defense choices may be limited by the type of attack. For example, you
can’t really Parry a bullet.

AUTOMATIC COMPETENCY: Player characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ are
automatically Competent with the Defense skill.

WOUNDS: Defense rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

Parry

_Verve Specialty_

A Parry is an attempt to block an attack with a weapon or a buckler; you
need to be wielding something in one of your hands in order to make a
Parry.

The primary advantage of a Parry is that if you successfully Parry, you
can also execute a Riposte – if you’ve got enough Success Points to do
so. You can only execute one Riposte per Parry.

WOUNDS: Parry rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

POSSIBILITY OF WEAPON BREAKAGE: If you use Parry to defend against a
Lunge attack and are unsuccessful, one possible result for the attacker
is to break your weapon.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate a dueling weapon’s quality, remember the names
of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone’s fencing
style.

CRAFTING: Bucklers and extra shields, as described in Chapter 10,
“Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: A Parry can be used against an attacker’s Lunge, Feint, or
Brawl roll, but not against a Riposte or Aim attack.

  Parry         
  ------------- ----------------------------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Incoming Lunge, Feint, or Brawl Attack
  Item Die:     Weapon or Shield Die
  +:            Negate Attack
  ++:           Execute a Riposte
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Increase Advantage
  +++++:        Disarm

NEGATE ATTACK: You prevent the attack from doing any damage to you, and
the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don’t do this, the
attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending her Success
Points normally.

EXECUTE A RIPOSTE: You can make a Riposte attack. This is the only way
to use the Riposte specialty; it has to follow a successful Parry or
Feint.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

INCREASE ADVANTAGE: You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already
have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of D12.

DISARM: You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to
attack you. (This can’t be used when defending against a Brawl attack.)
You get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in
an adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.

Block

_Affinity Specialty_

A Block roll is an attempt to prevent injury to yourself by using armor,
a shield, nearby furniture, terrain, or even a less vulnerable part of
your own body.

WOUNDS: Block rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate the quality of a suit of armor or a shield,
remember the names of famous soldiers, identify the blacksmith’s maker’s
mark on armor.

CRAFTING: Rigid armor, as described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: A Block roll can be used to defend against an attacker’s
Lunge, Riposte, or Aim roll, but not against a Feint or Brawl attack.

  Block         
  ------------- ----------------------------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Incoming Lunge, Riposte, or Aim Attack
  Item Die:     Armor or Shield Die
  +:            Negate Attack
  ++:           Reduce Yield Taken
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Increase Advantage

NEGATE ATTACK: You prevent the attack from doing any damage to you, and
the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don’t do this, the
attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending her Success
Points normally.

REDUCE YIELD TAKEN: If you have taken Yield, you can reduce it by
spending two Success Points per point of Yield.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

INCREASE ADVANTAGE: You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already
have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of +1D12.

Dodge

_Guile Specialty_

When you Dodge, you get yourself out of the way of an attack. Dodge
rolls don’t include Weapon or Armor Dice, but you can use a Dodge roll
to defend against any type of attack.

WOUNDS: Dodge rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: This Specialty is not often used to make knowledge
rolls.

OPPOSITION: A Dodge roll can be used against any incoming attack roll.

  Dodge         
  ------------- ------------------------------------------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Incoming Lunge, Riposte, Feint, Aim, or Brawl Attack
  +:            Negate Attack
  ++:           Increase Advantage
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Reduce Yield Taken
  +++++:        Free Move

NEGATE ATTACK: You prevent the attack from doing any damage to you, and
the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don’t do this, the
attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending her Success
Points normally.

INCREASE ADVANTAGE: You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already
have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of +1D12.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

REDUCE YIELD TAKEN: If you have taken Yield, you can reduce it by
spending four Success Points per point of Yield.

FREE MOVE: You can immediately make a Move action to an adjacent Area
without using an action or paying a Drop penalty.

Dueling

The Dueling skill lets you make attacks using a dueling weapon, such as
a sword, a knife, a quarterstaff, or even a pike.

WOUNDS: Dueling rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

Lunge

_Verve Specialty_

A Lunge is a basic attack and can be attempted with any hand-held
weapon, and is the most common way of dealing damage to an opponent in a
close-up fight. It can be opposed by any Defense specialty.

WOUNDS: Lunge rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate a dueling weapon’s quality, remember the names
of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone’s fencing
style.

CRAFTING: Swords and polearms, as described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: A Lunge can be defended against with any Defense roll.

  Lunge         
  ------------- ---------------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Target’s Parry, Block, or Dodge
  Item Die:     Weapon Die
  +:            Inflict 1 Yield
  ++:           Increase Advantage
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Inflict 1 Wound
  +++++:        Break Weapon

INFLICT 1 YIELD: Your opponent takes one Yield for each Success Point
you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she
is Yielded Out.

INCREASE ADVANTAGE: You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already
have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of +1D12.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

INFLICT 1 WOUND: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds
than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one
to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.

BREAK WEAPON: You snap your target’s blade. You can only do this if your
target attempts to Parry your attack and fails. A broken weapon is
useless except as an improvised weapon.

Riposte

_Affinity Specialty_

A Riposte is a counterattack that can only be attempted after a
successful Parry or Feint. By catching your opponent off-guard, you can
slip past her normal defenses.

WOUNDS: Riposte rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate a Dueling weapon’s quality, remember the names
of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone’s fencing
style.

CRAFTING: Daggers and other knives, as described in Chapter 10,
“Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: A Riposte can only be defended against by a Block or Dodge
roll, and not by a Parry roll.

  Riposte       
  ------------- ---------------------------
  Time:         Free Action
  Requires:     Successful Parry or Feint
  Opposition:   Target’s Block or Dodge
  Item Die:     Weapon Die
  +:            Inflict 1 Yield
  ++:           Decrease Advantage
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Inflict 1 Woundu

INFLICT 1 YIELD: Your opponent takes one Yield for each Success Point
you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she
is Yielded Out.

DECREASE ADVANTAGE: If your opponent has Advantage, you can decrease her
die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she has
+1D6 Advantage.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

INFLICT 1 WOUND: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds
than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one
to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.

Feint

_Guile Specialty_

A Feint is a false attack designed to get your opponent to lower her
defenses. The primary advantage of a Feint is to build Advantage against
your opponent; you can’t usually inflict Wounds directly with a Feint,
although you can inflict Yield.

WOUNDS: Feint rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate a Dueling weapon’s quality, remember the names
of famous duelists, identify the national origin of someone’s fencing
style.

CRAFTING: Nets and whips, as described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: A Feint roll can be defended against with a Parry or Dodge
roll, but not by a Block roll.

  Feint         
  ------------- -------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Target’s Parry or Dodge
  Item Die:     Weapon Die
  +:            Increase Advantage
  ++:           Inflict 1 Yield
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Execute a Riposte
  +++++:        Disarm

INCREASE ADVANTAGE: You gain a +1D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already
have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of +1D12.

INFLICT 1 YIELD: Your opponent takes one Yield for every two Success
Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield
Limit, she is Yielded Out.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

EXECUTE A RIPOSTE: You can make a Riposte attack. This is the only way
to use the Riposte specialty; it has to follow a successful Parry or
Feint.

DISARM: You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to Parry
you. You get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area,
in an adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.

Initiative

The Initiative skill is used in combat to determine who goes first, as
well as to take additional actions during a fight. The order of
Initiative is set by a free roll at the beginning of each fight, or when
each combatant enters the fight.

Generally, a character only needs to have ranks in one Initiative
specialty, usually corresponding to her highest Attribute Die.

AUTOMATIC COMPETENCY: Player characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ are
automatically Competent with the Initiative skill.

Impulse

_Verve Specialty_

The Impulse specialty is favored by combatants who have high Verve, and
is characterized by acting quickly to Seize the Initiative.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: This Specialty cannot be used to make knowledge rolls.

OPPOSITION: Initiative rolls are automatically successful, and ranked in
order by the MJ from highest (first to act) to lowest (last to act).

Impulse

  Impulse       
  ------------- ----------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Automatic Success
  +:            Seize the Initiative
  ++:           Interpose
  +++:          Reprise Attack

SEIZE THE INITIATIVE: For one round, you jump ahead in the Initiative
order, before someone else is about to act. The next round, you act at
your normal place in the Initiative order.

INTERPOSE: For one attack, you makes yourself the target of someone
else’s attack, instead of the attacker’s intended target. This can be
used to protect any target in the same Area, or as a combined action
with a Move to protect a target in an adjacent Area. Alternately, an
Interpose can be used to prevent an opponent in the same Area from
leaving that Area; this blocks the opponent’s movement but does not
redirect the attack. You can Interpose only once per round.

REPRISE ATTACK: If you failed on an attack roll, you can repeat the
attack. This can’t be used after a successful attack. You can Reprise
Attack only once per round.

Vigilance

_Affinity Specialty_

Vigilance is favored by combatants who have high Affinity and who look
to protect others, because they are able to Interpose most easily during
a fight.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: This Specialty cannot be used to make knowledge rolls.

OPPOSITION: Initiative rolls are automatically successful, and ranked in
order by the MJ from highest (first to act) to lowest (last to act).

  Vigilance     
  ------------- ----------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Automatic Success
  +:            Interpose
  ++:           Reprise Attack
  +++:          Seize the Initiative

INTERPOSE: For one attack, you makes yourself the target of someone
else’s attack, instead of the attacker’s intended target. This can be
used to protect any target in the same Area, or as a combined action
with a Move to protect a target in an adjacent Area. Alternately, an
Interpose can be used to prevent an opponent in the same Area from
leaving that Area; this blocks the opponent’s movement but does not
redirect the attack. You can Interpose only once per round.

REPRISE ATTACK: If you failed on an attack roll, you can repeat the
attack. This can’t be used after a successful attack. You can Reprise
Attack only once per round.

SEIZE THE INITIATIVE: For one round, you jump ahead in the Initiative
order, before someone else is about to act. The next round, you act at
your normal place in the Initiative order.

Timing

_Guile Specialty_

The Timing specialty allows the combatant to Reprise an Attack on a
failed roll, and is of most use to those with high Guile.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: This Specialty cannot be used to make knowledge rolls.

OPPOSITION: Initiative rolls are automatically successful, and ranked in
order by the MJ from highest (first to act) to lowest (last to act).

  Timing        
  ------------- ----------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Automatic Success
  +:            Reprise Attack
  ++:           Seize the Initiative
  +++:          Interpose

REPRISE ATTACK: If you failed on an attack roll, you can repeat the
attack. This can’t be used after a successful attack. You can Reprise
Attack only once per round.

SEIZE THE INITIATIVE: For one round, you jump ahead in the Initiative
order, before someone else is about to act. The next round, you act at
your normal place in the Initiative order.

INTERPOSE: For one attack, you makes yourself the target of someone
else’s attack, instead of the attacker’s intended target. This can be
used to protect any target in the same Area, or as a combined action
with a Move to protect a target in an adjacent Area. Alternately, an
Interpose can be used to prevent an opponent in the same Area from
leaving that Area; this blocks the opponent’s movement but does not
redirect the attack. You can Interpose only once per round.

Interaction

The Interaction skill covers social interactions between individual
characters, as well as characters addressing a group.

AUTOMATIC COMPETENCY: Player characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ are
automatically Competent with the Interaction skill.

LANGUAGE: If you and the other parties don’t share a common language,
you gain a Drop 2 penalty on all Interaction rolls.

Inspire

_Verve Specialty_

The Inspire specialty covers all attempts to instill a particular
feeling in another person (or group of people) – such as to make her
angry, enthusiastic, happy, frightened, or sad.

Inspire isn’t a kind of mind control; someone won’t take an action that
they are opposed to doing. But you can provoke her to give some kind of
reaction to your words.

LANGUAGE: If you and the other parties don’t share a common language,
you gain a Drop 4 penalty on all Interaction rolls.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Recall an inspiring speech from history or fiction,
remember the names of great leaders.

OPPOSITION: In most situations, an Inspire roll is an automatic success.
If you have a language barrier or other Drop Penalty applied, the
difficulty increases to Easy (3D6) or higher.

  Inspire       
  ------------- ------------------------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Automatic success or standard opposition
  +:            Inspiring Speech
  ++:           Increase Tag Die
  ++:           Reduce an Ally’s Yield
  ++:           Inflict 1 Yield
  +++:          Instill Emotion
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++:          Provoke Reaction

INSPIRING SPEECH: Your words start to sway those who hear them. You can
create a tag based on an emotional state, with a +1D0 Tag Die. This Tag
Die lasts until the end of the scene, and can be used with other
Specialties as a Bonus Die when appropriate. You can make one additional
Tag with a +1D0 Bonus Die for each success point you spend.

INCREASE TAG DIE: One Tag Die created by your inspiring speech improves
by one die size. You are limited by the number of skill ranks you have
in Interaction (Inspire), as shown on the following table:

Maximum Tag Die

  Inspire Rank   Bonus Die
  -------------- -----------
  1              +1D0
  2              +1D6
  3              +1D8
  4              +1D10
  5              +1D12

REDUCE AN ALLY’S YIELD: If an ally who can hear you has taken Yield, you
can reduce it by spending two Success Points per point of Yield.

INFLICT 1 YIELD: One opponent who can hear you takes one Yield for every
two Success Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds
her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.

INSTILL EMOTION: Choose one of the Tags you have active in this scene.
That specific Tag Die immediately ends for you. One person who can hear
you gains either a Drop Penalty or a Bonus Die on all actions related to
that Tag, your choice. For each additional success point you spend, you
can affect another person. The Drop Penalty decreases after each time
it’s applied, and the Bonus Die decreases in size after each use.

Inspire Results

  Tag Die   Drop Penalty   Bonus Die
  --------- -------------- -----------
  +1D0      Drop 1         +1D6
  +1D6      Drop 2         +1D8
  +1D8      Drop 3         +1D10
  +1D10     Drop 4         +1D12
  +1D12     Drop 4         +1D12

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

PROVOKE REACTION: You cause someone who can hear you to react to your
words, even if she doesn’t really want to. Choose one of the Tags you
have active in this scene. That specific Tag Die immediately ends for
you. The person you’ve affected will react on her next turn based on
that Tag. You don’t get to choose the specific reaction, and it’s
instead based on how she would normally react to such feelings. For
example, if you use a Tag Die of Anger, her response might be to attack
you, to fire a scathing insult at you, to burst into tears, to order
someone else to attack you, to leave the area, or to mock your clothing
choices.

Negotiate

_Affinity Specialty_

Negotiate covers diplomatic attempts to persuade someone, to compromise,
or give something up in return for something else. In general, to use
Negotiate you must be offering a bargaining chip of some kind, although
it need not be a completely fair trade.

LANGUAGE: If you and the other parties don’t share a common language,
you gain a Drop 4 penalty on all Interaction rolls.

TIME: A Negotiate roll for something simple, like haggling over goods,
takes one minute. More complicated business deals or diplomacy take an
hour or more.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate the price of an object, recall details on
treaties, remember something the other party might have overlooked.

CRAFTING: Contracts, treaties, and other legal documents, as described
in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: Negotiate rolls are always opposed by the other party’s
Negotiate rolls. If there isn’t a party in opposition to you, you
probably aren’t in a negotiation.

  Negotiate     
  ------------- ---------------------
  Time:         1 minute or 1 hour
  Opposition:   Negotiate
  +:            Float a Proposal
  ++:           Refine the Offer
  ++:           Counter-Offer
  ++:           Put it in Writing
  ++:           Reach Compromise
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++:          Close the Deal
  ++++:         Gain the Upper Hand

FLOAT A PROPOSAL: You propose a course of action, and create a +1D0 Tag
Die based on that proposal. Until the end of the scene, you can use that
Tag Die as a Bonus Die on appropriate rolls, including further Negotiate
rolls – or Wealth rolls if you are haggling over a purchase. If you
create a new proposal, the old Tag Die ends.

REFINE THE OFFER: For every two success points you spend, the Tag Die of
your existing proposal increases by one die size.

COUNTER-OFFER: If the other party has a Tag Die, you can decrease her
die size by one step, or remove her Tag Die entirely if she has a +1D6
Bonus Die.

PUT IT IN WRITING: You get the other party to agree to sign a written
document after you close the deal.

REACH COMPROMISE: You and the other party come to a compromise that
benefits you both equally, more or less, and you close the deal. All Tag
Dice created by either party immediately end.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

CLOSE THE DEAL: You end the negotiation. Whatever you and the other
party have agreed upon is how it the terms will remain, and the other
party won’t renegotiate terms in this scene. If you are haggling over a
purchase, you can use the Tag Die of your proposal as a Bonus Die on
your wealth roll; if the other party has a Tag Die, she can add that to
the opposition roll.

GAIN THE UPPER HAND: You end the negotiation. You get what you were
hoping to gain without major concessions. The other party loses Tag Dice
she may have created during the negotiation.

Deceive

_Guile Specialty_

Deceive is the ability to tell a believable lie, avoiding telltale
quirks and pitfalls that might reveal your duplicity. Lies which are
obviously untrue and unbelievable impose a penalty of Drop 1 to Drop 4,
at the MJ’s discretion.

LANGUAGE: If you and the other parties don’t share a common language,
you gain a Drop 4 penalty on all Interaction rolls.

TIME: Deception rolls are made after each new, major claim is made, so
could occur after 30 seconds of rambling, or hours of prolonged
storytelling.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: This Specialty is not often used to make knowledge
rolls.

CRAFTING: An alternate identity or a simple disguise, as described in
Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: Use the Intuition specialty of each person who is listening
to the lies.

  Deceive       
  ------------- --------------------
  Time:         Free Roll
  Opposition:   Intuition
  +:            Think on Your Feet
  ++:           Appear Sincere
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Appear Trustworthy

THINK ON YOUR FEET: You come up with something quickly so that you don’t
look like you’re obviously making something up. You can create a +1D0
Tag Die based on your lie that you can use as a Bonus Die on appropriate
rolls until the end of the scene. Attempts by others to disprove your
lie, through logical deduction or knowledge rolls, are made against Easy
(3D6) standard opposition.

APPEAR SINCERE: You lie while giving the impression that you really do
believe what you’re saying. For every two success points you spend, the
Tag Die of your lie increases by one die size and the difficulty of
disproving the lie increases by one step.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

APPEAR TRUSTWORTHY: Even if your lie is later exposed as false, those
who heard it still believe you that you didn’t intend to deceive them.
Maybe you were mistaken, or they misheard you, or you misspoke.

Magicks

The world of Elara has very subtle forms of magick: brewing draughts,
weaving charms into clothing, and reading portents. Most characters
completely lack knowledge in Magicks, leaving the study up to those who
specialize in it.

Successfully using a Magicks specialty results in the creation of a
Charm die. As with other types of dice, you can have only one Charm die
in any dice pool.

Weave

_Verve Specialty_

Charmwoven clothing must be specifically created for each character
using the Weave specialty, as it involves knowledge of the wearer’s
birthstone and other personal qualities.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate charmwoven items and identify their charms,
determine the specific master charmweaver who created an item of
apparel, recall facts related to the creation of cloth and silk.

CRAFTING: Articles of clothing, including charmwoven apparel, as
described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: Most Weave rolls are made to craft garments. Sensing or
restoring a charm is Easy (3D6) standard opposition. An attempt to
suppress a or bolster a Charm Die is made against standard opposition
corresponding to the size of the Charm Die – Easy (3D6) for a +1D6 Charm
Die, Moderate (3D8) for a +1D8 Charm Die, and so on.

  Weave         
  ------------- -----------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Tailoring Tools or Workshop
  +:            Sense Charm
  ++:           Suppress Charm Die
  +++:          Bolster Charm Die
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Restore Charm Die

SENSE CHARM: You can sense charms woven into clothing that are in the
same area as you, starting with the nearest charm to you. You learn the
article of clothing that’s encharmed and which Specialty the Charm Die
applies to. If you spend another success point, you also learn the size
of the Charm Die. For each additional success point you spend, you can
sense another charm in your area or an adjacent area. You can choose to
skip over any charm created or worn by you.

SUPPRESS CHARM DIE: You can choose one article of clothing in the same
area as you. If that article has a Charm Die, it is reduced by one step.
If it has a +1D6 Charm Die, you can remove it entirely. This effect
lasts until the end of the current scene. Each additional 2 success
points you spend reduces the Charm Die by one step. You can reduce a
Charm Die as many steps as you have ranks in Magicks (Weave).

BOLSTER CHARM DIE: You can choose one article of clothing in the same
area as you. If that article has a Charm Die, it is increased by one
step until the end of the scene. You can only increase a Charm Die by
one step.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

RESTORE CHARM DIE: You can choose one article of clothing in the same
area as you. If that article has a Charm Die that has been suppressed or
temporarily removed, you can restore the Charm Die to its normal value.
Until the end of the scene, that article’s Charm Die can’t be
suppressed.

Brew

_Affinity Specialty_

Brew is the magickal ability to distill enchantments into drinkable
draughts.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Identify a draught and its effects, recall the names of
the master alchemists in a city, describe where exotic ingredients can
be found.

CRAFTING: Salves, draughts, and other alchemical formulations, as
described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: Most Magicks (Brew) rolls are made to create a draught or
salve. Mixing a concoction has a standard difficulty of Easy (3D6).

  Brew          
  ------------- -----------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Alchemy tools or laboratory
  +:            Mix a Concoction
  ++:           Apply a Concoction
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point

MIX A CONCOCTION: You hastily mix together volatile chemicals and
reagents to produce an immediate reaction. You spend 1 unit of
alchemical ingredients and create one of the concoctions listed in
Chapter 9, “Specialty Equipment”. The concoction has an initial potency
level of 1 but increases by 1 for every 2 success points you spend. The
concoction lasts until your next turn, after which it becomes inert.

APPLY A CONCOCTION: You apply the effects of your concoction to
yourself, your area, an adjacent area, or another person in the same
area as you. Each recipient of the effect beyond the first requires that
you spend 1 additional unit of alchemical ingredients, with a limit of
additional targets equal to your specialty ranks in Magicks (Brew).

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

Portents

_Guile Specialty_

The Portents specialty involves reading omens and signs as well as using
cards, dice, tea leaves, or astrological charts to determine someone’s
future. It also includes placing hexes on people, and creating simple
trinkets known as bibelots that ward off hexes and bad luck.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Recall the names of famous seers or witches throughout
history, identify when someone is the target of a hex, identify a
bibelot’s charm, remember the astrological signs and birthstones.

CRAFTING: Astrological charts, bibelots, and divination tools, as
described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: If you read either the general omens around you or a willing
subject, the roll is an automatic success and the success points
determine the strength of the reading. If you are doing a reading on an
unwilling subject or if you are casting a hex on someone, the difficulty
is either Easy (3D6) or an opposed Magicks (Portents) roll, whichever is
better for the subject.

  Portents      
  ------------- ---------------------------------------
  Time:         1 Minute
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Divination tools, astrological charts
  +:            Read Portents
  ++:           Increase Accuracy
  ++:           Increase Precision
  ++:           Increase Specificity
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Cast a Hex

READ PORTENTS: You make a general prediction about the next 24 hours.
Ask one yes-or-no question, or have the person you’re reading ask a
yes-or-no question. You receive an answer which creates a +1D0 Tag Die
connected to that answer. Until the prediction comes true or 24 hours
passes, the subject of the reading can choose to use the tag as a Bonus
Die on any rolls that relate to the answer proving true. Each use of the
Tag Die decreases its size by one die size, or ends the prediction if
it’s a +1D0 Bonus Die. As long as any prediction is still in effect, the
subject can’t be the recipient of another reading.

INCREASE ACCURACY: The Tag Die increases by one die size, with a limit
set by your ranks in Magicks (Portents) as shown in the following table:

Maximum Tag Die

  Portents Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  ---------------- -----------------
  +1               +1D0
  +2               +1D6
  +3               +1D8
  +4               +1D10
  +5               +1D12

INCREASE PRECISION: The duration of your prediction increases by 24
hours, up to a limit of increases equal to your Magicks (Portents)
ranks.

INCREASE SPECIFICITY: The subject of the reading can ask another
yes-or-no question and receive an answer, or ask a question that can be
answered with a single noun. This creates an additional +1D0 Tag Die
based on the new question, that otherwise functions like the first Tag
Die. The maximum number of additional questions is limited to the number
of Magicks (Portents) specialty ranks you have.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

CAST A HEX: You choose one skill and the subject of your reading becomes
cursed on rolls with that skill for the next 24 hours. If your subject
is wearing a bibelot for that skill, the hex immediately ends and the
bibelot is destroyed. Otherwise, any existing hexes on her end and she
gains a Drop 1 penalty on that skill and its specialties. Every time the
Drop penalty is applied to one of her rolls, it decreases by 1. When the
Drop penalty is reduced to 0, the hex ends. For every two success points
you spend, you can increase the initial size of the Drop penalty by 1,
with a limit determined by your ranks in Portents as shown on the
following table:

Maximum Hex Penalty

  Portents Ranks   Maximum Hex Penalty
  ---------------- ---------------------
  +1               Drop 1
  +2               Drop 2
  +3               Drop 3
  +4               Drop 4
  +5               Drop 4

Medicine

Medical science is relatively advanced in Elara, thanks to both a long
history of witch-midwives and alchemy, and recent advances in science.
The Medicine skill is used to treat minor injuries, perform major
surgery, and work safely with poisonous toxins.

Surgery

_Verve Specialty_

Surgery is a Specialty which can be used to heal injuries which are
resistant to the Treat specialty, as well as to perform other surgical
procedures.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Perform an autopsy to determine the cause of death,
recall the names of famous surgeons, diagnose a patient in need of
surgery.

WOUNDS: Apply the patient’s wounds as a Drop Penalty on your surgery
roll.

SUPPLIES: The Surgery specialty uses medicine.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on a surgical procedure to add a
Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your
number of ranks in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following table:

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Specialty Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2 hours             1D0         +1
  4 hours             1D6         +2
  8 hours (1 day)     1D8         +3
  16 hours (2 days)   1D10        +4
  32 hours (4 days)   1D12        +5

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra medicine during surgery to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following tables:

Extra Supplies

  Units of medicine   Bonus Die   Specialty Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2                   1D0         +1
  3                   1D6         +2
  4                   1D8         +3
  6                   1D10        +4
  8                   1D12        +5

OPPOSITION: Healing wounds or minor surgeries are Easy (3D6) standard
difficulty. Major surgeries are Moderate (3D8) or higher.

  Surgery       
  ------------- -----------------------------------------
  Time:         1 Hour
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Chirurgeon’s Knives or Surgical Theatre
  Bonus Die:    Extra time, extra supplies
  +:            Patient Survives
  ++:           Heal 1 Wound
  +++:          Minor Surgical Procedure
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++++:        Major Surgical Procedure

PATIENT SURVIVES: Despite the relatively advanced state of Elaran
medicine, surgery remains a risky proposition. If you don’t spend one
Success Point to ensure the life of the patient, the patient takes one
Wound.

HEAL 1 WOUND: The patient heals one Wound. This requires that you spend
1 unit of medicine per wound healed.

MINOR SURGICAL PROCEDURE: You perform a minor surgical procedure, such
as suturing a wound or the setting of a bone. The patient must rest for
1 day or else gain one Wound the first time she engages in physical
activity. A minor procedure expends 2 units of medicine.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

MAJOR SURGICAL PROCEDURE: You perform a major surgical procedure, such
as a Caesarian section, gender confirmation surgery, or removal of the
appendix. The patient must rest for 1 week (six days) or else gain one
Wound the first time each day that she engages in physical activity. A
major procedure expends 5 units of medicine.

Treat

_Affinity Specialty_

The Treat specialty is used to care for those who are injured or sick.
After a Wound is taken, only one Treat roll can be made; further Wounds
must be healed using the Surgery specialty.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Diagnose a patient as suffering from poison or disease,
determine the cause of an injury, recall facts about a known illness and
useful folk cures for the same.

CRAFTING: Cures for diseases and other medical supplies, as described in
Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

BASE TIME: Treating a wound or removing Yield takes one minute, and
treating diseases or applying cures takes one hour.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on treatment to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following table:

Extra Time for a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Bonus Die   Treat Rank Required
  ----------------- ----------- ---------------------
  2 minutes         1D0         +1
  5 minutes         1D6         +2
  15 minutes        1D8         +3
  1 hour            1D10        +4
  4 hours           1D12        +5

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Treat Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- ---------------------
  2 hours             1D0         +1
  4 hours             1D6         +2
  8 hours (1 day)     1D8         +3
  16 hours (2 days)   1D10        +4
  32 hours (4 days)   1D12        +5

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra medicine during treatment to add a
Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your
number of ranks in Medicine (Surgery), as shown on the following tables:

Extra Supplies

  Units of medicine   Bonus Die   Specialty Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2                   1D0         +1
  3                   1D6         +2
  4                   1D8         +3
  6                   1D10        +4
  8                   1D12        +5

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to treat a patient by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush
treatment, as shown on the following tables:

Rushing a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  45 seconds        Drop 1
  30 seconds        Drop 2
  2 actions         Drop 3
  1 action          Drop 4

Rushing a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  30 minutes        Drop 1
  15 minutes        Drop 2
  5 minutes         Drop 3
  1 minute          Drop 4

OPPOSITION: The opposition depends on the severity of the condition
being treated. Reducing Yield is an automatic success, with the number
of success points determining how many points of Yield are removed.
Treating wounds is Easy (3D6), and treating a disease is dependent upon
the severity of the disease.

Treat

Time: | 1 minute or 1 hour |
Opposition: | Standard Opposition |
Item Die: | Chirurgeon’s Knives or Surgical Theatre |
+: | Reduce Patient’s Yield |
++: | Heal 1 Wound |
+++: | Gain 1 Style Point |
++++: | Reduce Disease Severity |

REDUCE PATIENT’S YIELD: If someone in the same area as you has taken
Yield, you can remove one point of Yield per success point you spend.
This expends one unit of medicine, regardless of how many success points
you spend.

HEAL 1 WOUND: The patient heals one Wound that has been sustained in the
last hour. This consumes one unit of medicine for each Wound healed, and
requires one minute of time.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

HEAL 1 WOUND: The patient heals one Wound that has been sustained in the
last hour. This consumes one unit of medicine for each Wound healed, and
requires one minute of time.

REDUCE DISEASE SEVERITY: The severity of the disease decreases by one
step, or is eliminated if the disease is already of the weakest
severity. This consumes one unit of medicine for each severity level
decreased.

Poison

_Guile Specialty_

The Poison specialty covers the creation, application, and use of
various toxic substances as well as antidotes for the same. A target can
be poisoned directly, or poison can be applied to a weapon.

STANDARD POISONS: The following types poisons are commonly used
throughout Elara and Ifran: deadly poison, impairing poison, and sleep
poison. See the Equipment chapter for more details.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Identify a poison without being exposed to it, diagnose
someone suffering from poison based on the effects, determine whether or
not an item of food is safe to consume.

CRAFTING: Poisons and antidotes as described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: Applying poison to your own weapon is an automatic success,
with the number of success points determining how many times you can use
that application of poison. Directly administering poison to your victim
is opposed by her Brawl roll. Adding poison to food or drink is opposed
by the highest Observation of whoever might be able to spot you doing
the deed. Administering an antidote is based on the potency of the
poison.

  Poison        
  ------------- ------------------------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Standard opposition or Automatic Success
  +:            Poison Your Victim
  +:            Poisoned Weapon
  ++:           Administer Antidote
  ++:           Avoid Notice
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point

POISONED WEAPON: You can add expend one dose of poison and apply it to a
Knife, Sword, Polearm, or the arrows for a Bow. For each success point
you spend, you can use the poison’s success table on one attack, in
addition to the normal success table for your weapon and attack. Your
weapon ceases to be poisoned when you make a number of attacks equal to
the success points you spent, when you apply a different poison to the
weapon, or at the end of the current scene.

POISON YOUR VICTIM: You can use your Success Points to directly injure
or debilitate the target by expending one dose of poison. Each
additional success point you spend can be used on the poison’s success
table against your victim.

ADMINISTER ANTIDOTE: You administer an antidote to someone who has been
poisoned, expending one dose of antidote. For every two success points
you spend, you can reduce the potency of the poison, reduce the duration
of the poison, remove 2 Yield inflicted by the poison, or heal 1 Wound
inflicted by poison during the current scene.

AVOID NOTICE: You apply your poison surreptitiously, hoping to go
unseen. The opposition for an Observation roll to spot the poison –
either on your blade, in a drink, or in food – is Easy (3D6). For every
two additional success points, you can increase the difficulty to spot
the posion by one step, limited by your specialty ranks in Medicine
(Poison) as shown in the following table:

Maximum Observation Opposition

  Poison Rank   Item Die
  ------------- -----------------------
  1             Easy (3D6)
  2             Moderate (3D8)
  3             Difficult (3D10)
  4             Very Difficult (3D12)
  5             Very Difficult (3D12)

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

Military

The Military skill includes training in ranged combat and unarmed
combat, plus strategic planning. A character with Competency in the
Military skill may have served in as a formal member of the military,
but it’s not automatic.

Brawl

_Verve Specialty_

The Brawl specialty can be used to attack in unarmed combat, and also
defend against the same. You usually need at least one hand free to make
a Brawl attack.

WOUNDS: Brawl rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

HOLDS: A held combatant receives a Drop Penalty on her Dueling, Parry,
and Aim rolls, and cannot Dodge, Run, or Move. The penalty starts at
Drop 1 when a hold is first achieved, and increases by 1 every time the
hold is increased (see below).

CRAFTING: Quarterstaves, clubs, and other bludgeons, as described in
Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate someone’s unarmed fighting technique after
watching her brawl, recall the names of famous pugilists.

  Brall         
  ------------- ---------------------------------
  Time:         1 action or Free Roll
  Opposition:   Target’s Brawl, Parry, or Dodge
  +:            Inflict 1 Yield
  +:            Negate Brawl Attack
  ++:           Achieve or Break Hold
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++:          Knockdown
  +++++:        Disarm

INFLICT 1 YIELD: Your opponent takes one Yield for each Success Point
you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she
is Yielded Out.

NEGATE BRAWL ATTACK: You prevent a Brawl attack from doing any damage to
you, and the attacker from spending her Success Points. If you don’t do
this, the attack still takes effect on you, with the attacker spending
her Success Points normally.

ACHIEVE OR BREAK HOLD: You achieve a hold on your target, or if you are
already held, you can break that hold. You can choose to do both in one
roll, if you have enough Success Points. A combatant who is held suffers
a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls; for every two additional
Success Points you spend, you can increase the Drop penalty by 1, to a
maximum of Drop 4.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

KNOCKDOWN: Your target is knocked prone, either in your Area or in an
adjacent Area. Knocking an opponent into an adjacent Area can result in
her falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. A prone character
suffers a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls, and cannot Move or
Run until she stands up; standing up is a Drop 1 combined action.

DISARM: You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is wielding. You
get to choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an
adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.

Aim

_Affinity Specialty_

The Aim specialty covers all kinds of ranged combat, from firing muskets
and bows to throwing daggers. Only Block or Dodge can be used to defend
against an Aim attack, and not Parry.

WOUNDS: Aim rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate the quality of a firearm or bow, identify the
type of weapon used to cause a wound, recall the names of famous
marksmen.

CRAFTING: Bows, crossbows, muskets, and pistols, as described in Chapter
10, “Crafting.”

  Aim           
  ------------- -------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Target’s Block or Dodge
  Item Die:     Weapon Die
  ++:           Inflict 1 Yield
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++:          Inflict 1 Wound
  ++++:         Free Reload
  ++++:         Knockdown

INFLICT 1 YIELD: Your opponent takes one Yield for every two Success
Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield
Limit, she is Yielded Out.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

INFLICT 1 WOUND: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds
than her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from one
to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is dying.

FREE RELOAD: You can reload your weapon if the reload time is Drop 4 or
lower

KNOCKDOWN: Your target is knocked prone. A prone character suffers a
Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense rolls, and cannot Move or Run until
she stands up. Standing up is a Drop 1 combined action.

Strategy

_Guile Specialty_

Strategy is the ability to make battle plans, both before and during a
fight. Characters with the Strategy specialty are skilled at leading
during combat and reading the way a fight is going.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Identify the leader of an army, evaluate a battle plan
to discover weaknesses, organize a supply line, recall the names of
famous generals.

CRAFTING: Battle plans, tactical maps, and military orders, as described
in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: Use the Military (Strategy) roll of your enemy’s leader. If
there’s no leader, your roll is an automatic success and the success
points you spend are used to determine the effectiveness of your
tactics.

  Strategy      
  ------------- -----------------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Strategy
  +:            Read the Fight
  ++:           Increase Tactical Advantage
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Decrease Advantage
  +++++:        Give an Order

READ THE FIGHT: For each Success Point you spend to Read the Fight,
choose one other combatant in the fight. You learn her Competency Die,
current Yield, and Wounds taken. Each additional success point allows
you to get information about an additional combatant.

INCREASE TACTICAL ADVANTAGE: For every two success points you spend, you
can do one of the following: reduce an ally’s Yield by 1, increase your
advantage, increase an ally’s advantage, or increase an ally’s
initiative points by 1.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

DECREASE ADVANTAGE: Choose one enemy. If she has Advantage, you can
decrease her die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely
if she has D6 Advantage.

GIVE AN ORDER: Choose a friendly person you can communicate with, and
give her an order that consists of one action. If she chooses to obey
the order, she gains a +1D0 Bonus Die for that action, and can
immediately take the ordered action (such as an attack, a move, or
reloading her weapon), even though it’s not her turn. For every 2
additional success points you spend, the Bonus Die increases by one
step, with a limit determined by your ranks in Military (Strategy):

Maximum Bonus Die

  Strategy Ranks   Maximum Bonus Die
  ---------------- -------------------
  +1               +1D0
  +2               +1D6
  +3               +1D8
  +4               +1D10
  +5               +1D12

Nature

Knowledge of the natural world is expressed through Competency in the
Nature skill. Nature is a hands-on skill, learned through experience
rather than book learning.

Explore

_Verve Specialty_

The Explore specialty lets you navigate through the world, on land, sea,
or even in the air. When appropriate, you can also use Explore to search
for survival needs such as water, food, and shelter. A map of the area,
a compass, or a navigator’s astrolabe can provide an Item Die bonus on
the roll.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Recall facts about towns, people, and creatures found
in distant lands, evaluate the quality of a sailing ship or airship,
chart a route on a detailed map, recall the names of famous explorers
and ship captains.

CRAFTING: Maps, rafts, shelters, and other survival gear, as described
in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

BASE TIME: Determining directions or finding a shortcut takes one
minute, and other uses of Nature (Explore) take 1 hour.

OPPOSITION: Under normal circumstances, a Nature (Explore) roll is an
automatic success, and the success points determine how well you’ve done
at your task. Inclement weather or hostile climates have a standard
difficulty of Easy (3D6) or higher.

  Explore       
  ------------- ------------------------
  Time:         1 Minute or 1 Hour
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Map or navigation tool
  +:            Determine Directions
  ++:           Locate a Landmark
  ++:           Find Food and Water
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++:          Find Shelter
  ++++:         Discover Shortcut

DETERMINE DIRECTIONS: You know which direction is north, and roughly
which direction you must travel in order to reach your desired
destination.

LOCATE A LANDMARK: You find a notable and unique feature such as a
geological formation, ruins of a town, or a burnt tree. This helps to
orient you so that you avoid becoming lost. You create a +1D0 Tag Die
based on the name of this location, which you can use on rolls to avoid
becoming lost. The size of the Tag Die decreases by one step for every
two leagues you travel away from the landmark. For every additional 2
success points you spend the initial Tag Die increases by one step,
limited by your specialty ranks in Nature (Explore) as shown on the
following table:

Maximum Tag Die

  Explore Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  --------------- -----------------
  +1              +1D0
  +2              +1D6
  +3              +1D8
  +4              +1D10
  +5              +1D12

FIND FOOD AND WATER: You manage to find a source of water, and units of
foodstuffs equal to your ranks in Nature (Explore), for every two
success points you spend. The food will last for 24 hours unless somehow
preserved.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

FIND SHELTER: You find a safe place to camp for the night that is secure
from weather and other dangers for the next 12 hours, for you and up to
10 other people or horses. You can increase the number you can shelter
by 5 people or horses for an additional success point. For every
additional success point you spend, you can increase the duration by 6
hours.

DISCOVER SHORTCUT: You discover a way to reach your destination 5%
sooner than you expected, often allowing you to intercept another person
or group before they arrive. For each additional success point you
spend, you decrease your travel time by 5%, up to a limit of one success
point per specialty rank of Explore.

Husbandry

_Affinity Specialty_

Animal handling and crop farming is covered by the Husbandry specialty,
along with dealing with animals of all types, including domesticated
animals such as cows, dogs, horses, or cats. This skill can also be used
with wild animals and naturally occurring plants.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate the quality of a mount, livestock animal, or
edible plant, predict the weather over the next couple of days, recall
the names of local landowners, identify the properties of an unknown
plant or animal.

CRAFTING: Leather goods, flexible armor, and cooked meals, as described
in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

WOUNDS: If you are treating a wounded animal, you have Drop Penalty
based on the animal’s wounds.

TIME: Controlling an animal or riding a horse takes 1 action, and other
uses of Husbandry take 1 hour.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on farming chores to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Nature (Husbandry), as shown on the following table:

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Husbandry Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2 hours             1D0         +1
  4 hours             1D6         +2
  8 hours (1 day)     1D8         +3
  16 hours (2 days)   1D10        +4
  32 hours (4 days)   1D12        +5

ITEM DIE: You can add the Weapon Die of a Knife when butchering, the
Item Die of a domesticated animal when gathering crops, tending flocks,
or farming, and the Item Die of chirurgeon’s tools when doing veterinary
medicine. For handling a domesticated animal, add the animal’s Training
attribute as an Item Die.

OPPOSITION: For gathering crops, farming, or butchery, the roll is an
automatic success and your success points are used to determine how well
you perform the task. Handling one of your own domesticated animals is
an automatic success as well.

The standard opposition for using handle animal with a wild animal or an
unfriendly domesticated animal is based the higher of its Instinct or
Ferocity attributes. Handling an animal with D6 Instinct is Easy (3D6),
one with D8 Ferocity is Moderate (3D8), and so on.

  Husbandry     
  ------------- ---------------------
  Time:         1 action or 1 hour
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  +:            Handle Animal
  +:            Gather Crops
  +:            Dairy Farming
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++:          Veterinary Medicine
  +++:          Butchery
  ++++:         Teach a New Trick

HANDLE ANIMAL: You can make a domesticated animal perform one of its
tricks, go where you want it to go, or otherwise follow your directions.
With a wild animal, you can either make it flee or convince it to not
attack you and your companions until the end of the scene as long as you
don’t approach it. If you’re riding a horse, each Success Point you
spend allows you to clear one obstacle such as a fence, hedge, or
stream.

When you successfully use Handle Animal, you create a +1D0 one-word Tag
Die for the animal’s attitude toward you that can be used as a Bonus Die
in Nature or Defense checks against that animal. The Tag Die lasts until
the end of the scene, and increases by one step for every 2 success
points you spend, up to a maximum based on your ranks in Husbandry as
shown in the following table:

(table) Maximum Tag Die

  Husbandry Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  ----------------- -----------------
  +1                +1D0
  +2                +1D6
  +3                +1D8
  +4                +1D10
  +5                +1D12

GATHER CROPS: Assuming you have access to a field of crops, you can
harvest 2 units of foodstuffs. For each additional success point you
spend, you can harvest an additional 2 units of foodstuffs.

DAIRY FARMING: Assuming you have access to milk cows, chickens, and
other farm animals, you can harvest 2 units of foodstuffs. For each
additional success point you spend, you can harvest an additional 2
units of foodstuffs.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

VETERINARY MEDICINE: You can heal one Wound that has been inflicted on
an animal in the current scene, or you can decrease the severity of a
disease affecting an animal. Each Wound treated or disease severity
reduced requires that you spend one dose of medicine.

BUTCHERY: You slaughter and butcher an animal to create foodstuffs. An
animal can provide a number of foodstuffs equal to its yield limit. Farm
animals provide an additional 50% more foodstuffs.

TEACH A NEW TRICK: You can teach a new trick to a domesticated animal.
If the animal already knows as many tricks as you have Specialty ranks
of Husbandry, or is an old dog, you can’t teach it any new tricks. For a
wild animal, domesticating it counts as one of its tricks.

Prowl

_Guile Specialty_

The Prowl specialty represents stealthy, secretive movement or action,
usually taken outdoors where there is sufficient cover or shadows to
hide from observers.

You make a Prowl roll as an action when you are not hidden and attempt
to do so, or as a free roll if you are already out of sight and someone
is looking for you. If you move from your location without moving
undetected, you must make another Prowl roll.

WOUNDS: Prowl rolls are subject to Drop penalties from your Wounds.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Remember old abandoned bandit hideouts, recall the
names of famous brigands.

OPPOSITION: Hiding under optimal conditions (night, no moon, inclement
weather) is normally an automatic success. Such situations are rare,
however. Instead, most Prowl rolls are Easy (3D6) under ordinary
circumstances. Increase the standard difficulty by one step for each of
the following conditions: tracked by animals, bright sunlight, lack of
cover, quiet location.

  Prowl         
  ------------- ---------------------
  Time:         1 action
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  +:            Hide
  +:            Lead the Ambush
  ++:           Increase Advantage
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Move Undetected

HIDE: You find a place to hide until the end of the scene or you move to
a different location, whichever comes first. In order to see you,
someone else must make an Observation roll against a standard difficulty
of Easy (3D6). For every two additional success points you spend, you
increase the difficulty by one step, limited by your ranks in Nature
(Prowl):

Maximum Observation Opposition

  Prowl Rank   Item Die
  ------------ -----------------------
  1            Easy (3D6)
  2            Moderate (3D8)
  3            Difficult (3D10)
  4            Very Difficult (3D12)
  5            Very Difficult (3D12)

LEAD THE AMBUSH: You can extend the effects of your Prowl roll to one
additional ally in the same Area as you for each Success Point you spend
on Lead the Ambush. This can include hiding, increasing advantage, or
moving undetected.

INCREASE ADVANTAGE: You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already
have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of D12.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

MOVE UNDETECTED: You can take a free move to an adjacent Area and remain
unseen if you are already hidden.

Observation

The Observation skill encompasses both reading situations and reading
people, as well as putting together disparate clues to see the bigger
picture.

AUTOMATIC COMPETENCY: Player characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ are
automatically Competent with the Observation skill.

Perceive

_Verve Specialty_

With a Perceive roll, you can spot a person in a crowd, listen for one
voice in a chorus, notice the smell of burning wood, or detect an ambush
before it happens. The MJ can call for Perceive as a free roll, or you
can make additional rolls by using your action to examine your
surroundings.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Accurately describe someone you have seen or heard, or
identify her from a description.

OPPOSITION: Under most circumstances, a Perceive roll is an automatic
success and the number of success points determines how well you
accomplished the task. The standard opposition for spotting someone or
something hidden is determined by the hider’s Nature (Prowl) or
Streetwise (Larceny) roll. Trying to Perceive something under difficult
circumstances, such as inclement weather or a crowded tavern, can have a
difficulty of Easy (3D6) or more.

  Perceive      
  ------------- ------------------------
  Time:         Free Roll, or 1 action
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  +:            Notice the Obvious
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Notice Minor Detail
  +++++:        Notice Hidden Detail

NOTICE THE OBVIOUS: You notice something which is pretty easy to spot
but not directly in front of you, or you spot someone who is hiding from
you. For each additional success point, you spot something else that
isn’t directly in front of you or hiding.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

NOTICE MINOR DETAIL: You notice a small detail about a person, an
animal, an object, a vehicle, or an area that most people wouldn’t
catch. For every 2 additional success points, you notice another detail
about the same thing.

NOTICE HIDDEN DETAIL: You make note of a tiny detail that someone has
taken pains to hide, disguise, or eliminate.

Intuition

_Affinity Specialty_

Intuition involves reading subtle cues from your environment, including
non-verbal cues from other people. The MJ can call for Intuition as a
free roll, or you can make additional rolls by using your action to
examine your surroundings.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Remember something that you didn’t consciously notice
at the time you saw it, recall someone that you met in your childhood.

OPPOSITION: Under most circumstances, an Intuition roll is an automatic
success and the number of success points determines how well you
accomplished the task. The standard opposition for sensing someone or
something hidden is determined by the hider’s Nature (Prowl) or
Streetwise (Larceny) roll, and determining if someone is lying is
opposed by their Interaction (Deceive) roll. Trying to intuit something
under difficult circumstances, such as inclement weather or a crowded
tavern, can have a difficulty of Easy (3D6) or more.

  Intuition     
  ------------- ------------------------
  Time:         Free Roll, or 1 action
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  +:            Get a Hunch
  ++:           Sense Danger
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Sense Falsehood

GET A HUNCH: You have a gut feeling about something, and it’s probably
right. You create a +1D0 Tag Die that can be used as a Bonus Die on any
Observation or Initiative rolls until the end of the scene. The Tag Die
is based on one word picked by the MJ. For each additional success
point, the MJ adds another word to the Tag. For every 2 additional
success points, you increase the Tag Die by one step, with a limit based
on your ranks in Observation (Intuition) as shown by the following
table:

Maximum Tag Die

  Intuition Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  ----------------- -----------------
  +1                +1D0
  +2                +1D6
  +3                +1D8
  +4                +1D10
  +5                +1D12

SENSE DANGER: You can identify one or more sources of immediate danger
that aren’t readily apparent, including an ambush. Every two Success
Points you spend spots another potential source of harm.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

SENSE FALSEHOOD: You can tell when someone is lying to you, picking up
on her unconscious tells. You don’t know what the truth is, but you do
know you’re not hearing it now. For the rest of the scene, you know when
she’s telling you the truth and when she’s not.

Deduce

_Guile Specialty_

The Deduce specialty lets you size up a situation and formulate a
scenario in which they make sense, as provided by the MJ. This will
always be a supplement to your own roleplaying and decision-making
processes while playing _The Queen’s Cavaliers_; it is not meant to
substitute for player ingenuity. Deduce can also be used to analyze
clues and spot falsehoods.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Remember the solution to a puzzle you’ve solved before,
decipher a coded message, recall the names of famous detectives.

OPPOSITION: Under most circumstances, a Deduce roll is an automatic
success and the number of success points determines how well you
accomplished the task. The standard opposition for detecting someone or
something hidden is determined by the hider’s Nature (Prowl) or
Streetwise (Larceny) roll, and determining if someone is lying is
opposed by their Interaction (Deceive) roll. Trying to Deduce something
under difficult circumstances, such as inclement weather or a crowded
tavern, can have a difficulty of Easy (3D6) or more.

  Deduce        
  ------------- --------------------------
  Time:         Free Roll, or 1 action
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  +:            Recognize Clue
  ++:           Reach Simple Conclusion
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Infer Greater Plan
  +++++:        Reach Complex Conclusion

RECOGNIZE CLUE: You realize that something in your current situation is
out of place or doesn’t add up. You create a +1D0 Tag Die that you can
use on Observation and Streetwise rolls until the end of the current
scene. The MJ will tell you what the Tag is, but won’t tell you what it
means. For 2 additional points you can increase the Tag Die by one step,
to a limit based on your ranks in Observation (Deduce) as shown on the
following table:

Maximum Tag Die

  Deduce Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  -------------- -----------------
  +1             +1D0
  +2             +1D6
  +3             +1D8
  +4             +1D10
  +5             +1D12

REACH SIMPLE CONCLUSION: You draw a basic conclusion from the available
facts. You need to have recognized at least one clue to reach a
conclusion. The conclusion will be simple and straightforward, a la
Ockham’s razor, but is not guaranteed to be correct. Each time you find
another clue, you automatically know whether it fits your simple
conclusion or not.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

INFER GREATER PLAN: You can determine whether or not something was
deliberately done, and if so, become aware that there is more to the
situation than what appears. If you witness more of this plan in action,
you will automatically know that it’s part of the same scheme, even if
you don’t yet know the role it plays.

REACH COMPLEX CONCLUSION: You draw together several clues to form a more
complex scenario that fits the facts as you understand them. The complex
conclusion is guaranteed to be more accurate than a simple conclusion,
but it may not include all the variables and thus may be subject to
misunderstanding or inaccuracies. Each time you find another clue or
witness more of a plan, you automatically know how to include it in your
complex conclusion.

Science

Science is a skill that covers the use, repair, and creation of advanced
technology and complex mathematics, from time watches to airships, from
repeating cannons to wing-gliders. The Blackpowder specialty also covers
the use of explosives.

Blackpowder

_Verve Specialty_

The Blackpowder specialty is used to work with explosives of all types,
as well as the rare phlogistone material that allows airships to soar
through the sky. Skilled powderworkers are employed by militaries, by
craftsmen, and by airship crews.

A Blackpowder roll is used to fire cannons and throw grenades, which
cause explosive damage to all within a given Area or to structures such
as buildings or ships. Although pistols and muskets use blackpowder to
fire their ammunition, the Military (Aim) skill is used for those
hand-held weapons.

EXPLOSION DAMAGE: An explosion weapon does damage to everything inside a
given Area. More powerful explosions also do damage in adjacent Areas,
and even targets up to two Areas away for the most powerful explosions.

The person who initiated the explosion makes a Blackpowder roll as an
automatic success to set the base damage and the range.

Anyone in an area affected by the explosion makes a Block or Dodge roll
that also is an automatic success. For one success point on the Block or
Dodge roll, a target gains one less point of Yield, and for three
successes she takes one less Wound.

  Block or Dodge (Explosion)   
  ---------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Time:                        Free roll
  Opposition:                  Automatic success
  Item Die:                    Armor die or Shield die for Block rolls
  +:                           Take 1 Less Yield
  +++:                         Take 1 Less Wound

+++: Gain 1 Style Point

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Evaluate the quality of a cannon or grenade, describe
the process used to create blackpowder or phlogistone, remember,
remember the 5th of Frimaire.

CRAFTING: Phlogistone furnaces, cannons, grenades, fireworks, and other
uses of blackpowder.

WOUNDS: Blackpower rolls with explosive weapons are subject to Drop
penalties from your Wounds.

TIME: Firing a loaded weapon or detonating charges takes one action.
Setting or disarming explosives takes one minute.

ITEM DIE: Add the Weapon Die as an Item Die when using an explosive
weapon, or the Item Die of repair tools if setting, disarming, or
detonating explosives.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time setting or disarming a bomb to add
a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your
number of ranks in Science (Blackpowder), as shown on the following
table:

Extra Time for a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Bonus Die   Blackpowder Rank Required
  ----------------- ----------- ---------------------------
  2 minutes         1D0         +1
  5 minutes         1D6         +2
  15 minutes        1D8         +3
  1 hour            1D10        +4
  4 hours           1D12        +5

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to set or disarm a bomb by taking a
Drop penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking
extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush
the task, as shown on the following table:

Rushing a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  45 seconds        Drop 1
  30 seconds        Drop 2
  2 actions         Drop 3
  1 action          Drop 4

OPPOSITION: When using an explosive weapon or detonating charges, the
Blackpowder roll is an automatic success and the success points are used
to select a target area and set the base damage of the explosion. For
setting or disarming explosives, the standard opposition is based on the
bomb’s Explosion Dice.

Blackpowder

Time: | 1 action, or 1 minute |
Opposition: | Standard Opposition |
Item Die: | Weapon die or repair tools |
Bonus Die: | Extra time |
+: | Hit An Area |
++: | Base Damage +1 Wound |
++: | Set Timed Fuse |
++: | Detonate Charges |
+++: | Expand Radius |
+++: | Gain 1 Style Point |
++++: | Disarm Explosives |

HIT AN AREA: You fire an explosive weapon into an area adjacent to your
own. For each additional success point you spend, you can move the
center of the explosion another area away from you, out to the maximum
range of the weapon.

BASE DAMAGE +1 WOUND: For every two success points you spend, increase
the base damage by 1 Wound. This increase to the Wound damage is limited
to twice the number of ranks you have in Science (Blackpowder).

SET TIMED FUSE: You set a timed fuse in your area to detonate within a
given period of time. The default fuse for a standard bomb is one to 10
rounds, with the exact number of rounds being up to you. The bomb
detonates at the end of the chosen round, after everyone else has acted.

DETONATE CHARGES: You immediately detonate a bomb in your own area or an
adjacent area. Alternately, you can use a Pistol or Musket within its
normal range or a thrown flame within Short range (1 to 2 Areas) to
perform this action. Add the Pistol or Musket’s Weapon Die as an Item
Die, and apply any Drop Penalties due to the weapon’s normal range.

EXPAND RADIUS: When setting explosives or firing artillery, you can
extend the radius of the blast by one step. “Close” becomes “Adjacent”,
“Adjacent” becomes “Short”, and so on, out to the maximum radius of the
explosives.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

DISARM EXPLOSIVES: You disarm a bomb or other explosive device that has
not yet detonated.

Clockworks

_Affinity Specialty_

The Clockworks specialty allows you to create, repair, and customize
clockwork devices. For more details, see the list of clockwork devices
and components in Chapter 9, “Specialty Equipment.”

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Identify the functions and components of a clockwork
device, recall the names of famous mechanicians, determine what
components of a device are malfunctioning, read and understand plans
drawn by other clockworkers.

CRAFTING: Clockwork devices, components, power sources, and other
mechanical contrivances, as described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

TIME: It takes one action to keep a device together or draw more power
from it. Sabotaging a device takes 1 minute. To repair a device or
salvage components from it takes 1 hour.

BONUS DIE: If you have plans for the device you’re working on, you can
add the bonus die from those plans to the roll, in addition to any
applicable Item Die.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time repairing, salving, or sabotaging a
device to add a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is
limited by your number of ranks in Science (Clockworks), as shown on the
following tables:

Extra Time for a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Bonus Die   Clockworks Rank Required
  ----------------- ----------- --------------------------
  2 minutes         1D0         +1
  5 minutes         1D6         +2
  15 minutes        1D8         +3
  1 hour            1D10        +4
  4 hours           1D12        +5

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Clockworks Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- --------------------------
  2 hours             1D0         +1
  4 hours             1D6         +2
  8 hours (1 day)     1D8         +3
  16 hours (2 days)   1D10        +4
  32 hours (4 days)   1D12        +5

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to repair, salvage, or sabotage a
device by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job
that you’re taking extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends
on how much you rush the task, as shown on the following table:

Rushing a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  45 seconds        Drop 1
  30 seconds        Drop 2
  2 actions         Drop 3
  1 action          Drop 4

Rushing a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  30 minutes        Drop 1
  15 minutes        Drop 2
  5 minutes         Drop 3
  1 minute          Drop 4

OPPOSITION: The standard opposition for working with a clockwork device
is normally Easy (3D6). If you created or assembled the device yourself,
the roll is an automatic success and the success points are used to
determine how well you accomplished the task. For each component in a
device that is beyond your ability to create, based on your Science
(Clockworks) skill, increase the standard opposition by one step.

Clockworks

Time: | 1 action, 1 minute, or 1 hour |
Opposition: | Standard Opposition |
Item Die: | Tools or Workshop Die |
Bonus Die: | Plans, extra time |
+: | Keep It Together |
++: | We Need More Power |
++: | Repair 1 Malfunction |
++: | Salvage a Component |
+++: | Gain 1 Style Point |
++++: | Sabotage Device |

KEEP IT TOGETHER: You manage to patch the device together long enough
that one malfunction doesn’t affect it until the end of the next round.
For each additional success point, you increase the duration by another
round.

WE NEED MORE POWER: You manage to coax an extra point of power out of a
device’s power source for every two success points you spend, with a
limit of extra power equal to your ranks in Science (Clockworks). The
increased power lasts until you spend it or the end of the next round.
At the end of the scene, the device gains one malfunction for every time
you boosted the power output.

REPAIR 1 MALFUNCTION: You fix the device and remove a malfunction in one
of its components. Each malfunction removed requires the expenditure of
one unit of supplies of a type used to create the component.

SALVAGE A COMPONENT: You can remove one functioning component or power
source from the device, for use in later devices; this requires at least
an hour’s worth of work. You can’t salvage a malfunctioning or destroyed
component. Alternately, you can destroy a component or power source to
regain one unit of supplies of a type used to create the component.

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

SABOTAGE MACHINE: You add a malfunction to one component in a device. If
you spend an extra success point, you can remove the malfunction later
by taking a single action to do so.

Calculus

_Guile Specialty_

The Calculus specialty includes all manner of calculations of numbers,
from adding sums to deriving mathematical equations. Experienced
merchants and moneylenders also use Calculus regularly in order to
balance their books, and mariners use Calculus to create their charts.

KNOWLEDGE ROLLS: Read and understand the meaning behind complex
equations, recall the names of famous mathematicians and scientists.

CRAFTING: Calculations, clockwork plans, and mathematical theorems as
described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

OPPOSITION: Use Easy (3D6) for calculations done in a well-equipped
workshop, or Moderate (3D8) for field work with paper and ink. Doing
calculations in your head is Hard (3D10).

  Calculus      
  ------------- -----------------------
  Time:         1 minute or 1 hour
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  Item Die:     Tools or Workshop Die
  +:            Simple Calculation
  ++:           Analytis
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Complex Calculation

SIMPLE CALCULATION: You perform a simple calculation such as determining
the size or speed of an object.

ANALYTICS: You create a +1D0 Tag Die based one specialty that can be
used as a Bonus Die until the end of the scene. The Tag Die can only be
used in a roll that uses quantities, measurements, prices, or other
numbers. Examples include navigating with Nature (Explore), cooking food
with Nature (Husbandry), haggling over a price with Interaction
(Negotiate), or aiming a cannon with Science (Blackpowder). For every
two additional success points you spend, you can increase the Tag Die by
one size, with a limit based on your ranks in Science (Calculus) as
shown in the following table:

(table) Maximum Tag Die

  Calculus Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  ---------------- -----------------
  +1               +1D0
  +2               +1D6
  +3               +1D8
  +4               +1D10
  +5               +1D12

GAIN 1 STYLE POINT: You gain one Style Point; you must describe how you
use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of three
Style Points at any time.

COMPLEX CALCULATION: This is a more complicated type of mathematics,
usually involving polynomials or integrals.

Streetwise

Streetwise skill covers the ability to survive and prosper in a medium
or large city, sometimes relating to people of varying Social Ranks.
Streetwise characters are savvy to the right places in town to get
things done, and are good at trash-talking their opponents.

Banter

_Verve Specialty_

The Banter specialty lets you toss quips and insults both in and out of
a fight, trying to provoke a reaction of some kind. You can use Banter
to demoralize your foes or impress your audience.

Language: | You can only use Banter on someone who can understand the |

language you’re speaking.

Knowledge Rolls: | Remember embarrassing details about someone else’s |

personal life, recall a scathing retort from a line of a play.

TIME: Most uses of Banter take only 1 action to perform, although
spreading rumors takes 1 hour.

Extra Time: | You can spend extra time spreading rumors to add a Bonus |

Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Streetwise (Banter), as shown on the following table:

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Banter Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- ----------------------
  2 hours             1D0         +1
  4 hours             1D6         +2
  8 hours (1 day)     1D8         +3
  16 hours (2 days)   1D10        +4
  32 hours (4 days)   1D12        +5

Opposition: | When directly confronting someone, your Banter roll is |

opposed by their own Banter roll. If you’re spreading rumors, the
standard opposition is Easy (3D6) in a medium city and Moderate (3D8) in
a large city.

  Banter        
  ------------- ----------------------------------
  Time:         1 action, 1 hour, or free action
  Opposition:   Target’s Banter
  +:            Decrease Advantage
  ++:           Increase Advantage
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  +++:          Inflict 1 Yield
  +++:          Spread Rumor
  ++++:         Enrage Opponent

Decrease Advantage: | If your opponent has Advantage, you can decrease |

her die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she
has D6 Advantage.

Increase Advantage: | You gain a D6 Advantage Die if you don’t already |

have Advantage, or increase your die size by one step, up to a maximum
of D12.

Gain 1 Style Point: | You gain one Style Point; you must describe how |

you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of
three Style Points at any time.

Inflict 1 Yield: | Your opponent takes one Yield for every three |

Success Points you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her
Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out.

Spread Rumor: | You spread scurrilous yet believable lies about a |

rival. You create a +1D0 Tag Die based on a person, a place, an animal,
or an object involved in some scandalous way with your rival. You can
use the Tag Die as a Bonus Die on Interaction, Intuition, and Streetwise
rolls against your rival for 1 week (six days). The rumor can’t be
easily traced back to you.

For one additional success point, you can extend the duration by one
day. For every 2 additional success points you spend, you can increase
the Tag Die by one step, to a maximum value based on your ranks in
Streetwise (Banter) as shown in the following table:

Maximum Tag Die

  Banter Ranks   Maximum Tag Die
  -------------- -----------------
  +1             +1D0
  +2             +1D6
  +3             +1D8
  +4             +1D10
  +5             +1D12

Enrage Opponent: | If you aren’t in a fight already, you provoke your |

opponent into starting combat. If you are in combat, your opponent will
focus on you to the exclusion of other targets, until you’re dead,
unconscious, or the fight ends.

Carouse

_Affinity Specialty_

The Carouse specialty involves frequenting establishments where liquor
is served and tongues accordingly flow more freely. Carousing in a
tavern or bar is a good way to pick up on the local rumors, and maybe
even learn some secrets from a drunken informant.

Language: | If you don’t speak one of the local languages, you get a |

Drop 2 penalty on Carouse rolls.

Knowledge Rolls: | Locate the best (or worst) taverns in town, |

identify the type and origin of liquor with a taste, recall your
companion(s) in previous drunken trysts.

Crafting: | Beer, ale, wine, and other alcoholic beverages, as |

described in Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

Item Die: | If you buy a round of drinks for everyone in a tavern, you |

can add the highest die in its cost to your Carousing roll as an Item
Die.

Extra Time: | You can spend extra time carousing to add a Bonus Die to |

your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Streetwise (Carousing), as shown on the following table:

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Carousing Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2 hours             1D0         +1
  4 hours             1D6         +2
  8 hours (1 day)     1D8         +3
  16 hours (2 days)   1D10        +4
  32 hours (4 days)   1D12        +5

Opposition: | The larger the city, the easier it is for you to get |

information or make a connection without drawing too much attention to
yourself. In anything smaller than a large town, the standard opposition
is Hard (3D10). In a large town or small city, the opposition is
Moderate (3D8), and in a large city, the opposition is Easy (3D6). If
you go carousing in your usual haunts – because sometimes you want to go
where everybody knows your name, and they’re always glad you came – the
roll is an automatic success and the success points are used to
determine how well you performed the task.

  Carouse       
  ------------- -----------------------
  Time:         1 Hour
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition
  Bonus Die:    Extra time
  +:            Hold Your Liquor
  +:            Learn Common Rumor
  ++:           Learn Rare Rumor
  +++:          Find a Companion
  +++:          Gain 1 Style Point
  ++++:         Learn Uncommon Secret
  +++++:        Learn Rare Secret

Hold Your Liquor: | You don’t suffer ill effects from the |

over-consumption of alcoholic beverages.

Learn Common Rumor: | You learn one of the common rumors that is |

circulating around town, which may or may not be true.

Learn Rare Rumor: | You learn a rare rumor that comes from only one or |

two sources, but which still may or may not be true.

Find a Companion: | You find someone with whom to spend the evening – |

be that an old soldier telling war stories, a romantic partner of a
gender of your choice, or a friendly bartender to hear your tale of woe.
You can locate them easily and enjoy their company another night for the
next week (6 days), and can increase that duration by one week for each
additional success point you spend.

Gain 1 Style Point: | You gain one Style Point; you must describe how |

you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of
three Style Points at any time.

Learn Uncommon Secret: | You learn a secret that is not commonly known |

by the general public, such as the name of the duchess’s mistress.

Learn Rare Secret: | You learn a secret that is known to only a few in |

town, such as the location of the secret entrance to the baroness’s
vaults.

Larceny

_Guile Specialty_

The Larceny specialty is used for criminal endeavors, primarily theft.
You use Larceny rolls not only to steal objects but also fence them and
to purchase stolen goods on the black market.

Knowledge Rolls: | Estimate the value of a stolen object, evaluate the |

quality of a lock or door, recall the names and rap sheets of famous
criminals.

Crafting: | Locks, traps, alarms, and forgeries, as described in |

Chapter 10, “Crafting.”

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to perform a Larceny roll by taking a
Drop penalty on your die roll. The size of the Drop penalty depends on
how quickly you rush, as shown on the following table:

Rushing a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  45 seconds        Drop 1
  30 seconds        Drop 2
  2 actions         Drop 3
  1 action          Drop 4

Opposition: | For poor traps, alarms, and locks, use Easy (3D6). For |

average obstacles, use Moderate (3D8). For high-quality obstacles, use
Difficult (3D10). For extremely complex obstacles, use Very Difficult
(3D12).

Opposition: | When trying to steal something, use the highest |

Observation specialty of whomever might see you.

  Larceny       
  ------------- ------------------------------------
  Time:         1 minute
  Opposition:   Standard Opposition or Observation

ITEM DIE: Repair tools when working with obstacles | +: | Case the Joint
| | ++: | Steal Something | | +++: | Bypass Obstacle | | +++: | Gain 1
Style Point | | +++: | Install Obstacle |

Case the Joint: | You look around your own Area or an adjacent Area |

and learn one of the following pieces of information:

-   The nearest exit, and whether it’s locked
-   The most valuable object you could carry, and whether it’s unsecured
-   The location of the nearest guard or other observer
-   The location and trigger of a trap or alarm

Each additional Success Point you spend can tell you a different piece
of information, or the next item down within the same category. For
example, a second Success Point could tell you the second nearest exist,
the second-most valuable object, the location of the second-nearest
observer, or the location of an additional trap.

Steal Something: | You can palm an unattended small item in your Area |

without being seen. For an extra 2 success points, you can remove a
small item from the pocket of someone in the same Area as you. If you
spend an additional 2 success points, you can move it to your pocket or
the pocket of someone else in your Area.

Bypass Obstacle: | You can pick a lock, bypass a trap, or disable an |

alarm in your Area that would otherwise prevent you from engaging in
criminal activity. If you spend one additional success point, you can
reset the obstacle to become active again once you have left the Area.

Gain 1 Style Point: | You gain one Style Point; you must describe how |

you use the Specialty with style, and you can only have a maximum of
three Style Points at any time.

Install Obstacle: | You can set a trap, alarm, or lock in your own |

area to trigger once you have left the Area. An Easy (3D6) Observation
roll is required for someone to notice the trap. For each additional 2
success points you spend, the difficulty of the Observation roll
increases by one step, limited by the number of skill ranks you have in
Larceny as shown on the following table:

Maximum Observation Opposition

  Larceny Rank   Item Die
  -------------- -----------------------
  1              Easy (3D6)
  2              Moderate (3D8)
  3              Difficult (3D10)
  4              Very Difficult (3D12)
  5              Very Difficult (3D12)

Crafting

As described in Chapter 4, “Skills & Specialties,” characters in _The
Queen’s Cavaliers_ can use most specialties in order to craft items
related to that specialty. The requirements for crafting are:

-   YOU NEED TO SPEND TIME. The time varies – minutes, hours, days,
    weeks. You can’t craft more than 8 hours in a day. (Lutetia’s unions
    are quite strong.) You may be able to increase or decrease the time
    to craft an item, to affect your success at crafting.
-   YOU NEED TOOLS TO WORK. If you don’t have the right tools, you at
    least need something that can function as the right tools, even if
    you don’t get an Item Die from the makeshift tool.
-   YOU NEED AT LEAST ONE SPECIALTY RANK. You can’t make a crafting roll
    based on the skill alone. Each further specialty rank adds new items
    you can craft.
-   YOU NEED TO EXPEND SUPPLIES. Supplies are counted in “units”, an
    abstracted measure of the raw material you have on hand. In most
    cases, you can’t substitute something else, but check with your MJ.
-   YOU NEED TO MAKE A SPECIALTY ROLL. If you’ve met all the other
    requirements listed above, you automatically succeed on the roll and
    craft something. The purpose of the roll is to determine how well of
    a job you did on the crafting. The more success points you spend,
    the better the final product. You can’t gain style points on
    crafting rolls.

Extra Supplies

Sometimes you can spend more supplies than you need in order to craft a
superior item. You could create a larger or more ornate version of an
item, or perhaps simply make several prototypes before eventually
getting it right.

If the crafting Specialty has an “Extra Supplies” entry, you can use
more materials than needed while crafting to add a Bonus Die to your
dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in
the Specialty, as shown on the following tables:

Extra Supplies

  Units of Supplies   Bonus Die   Specialty Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2                   1D0         +1
  3                   1D6         +2
  4                   1D8         +3
  6                   1D10        +4
  8                   1D12        +5

Extra Time

Taking your time to craft an item means you can check and re-check your
work at every step of the way, and the extra crafting time allows for
more careful work.

If the description of the crafting specialty has an “Extra Time” entry,
you can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to your dice
pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks in the
Specialty, as shown on the following tables:

Extra Time for a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Bonus Die   Specialty Rank Required
  ----------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2 minutes         1D0         +1
  5 minutes         1D6         +2
  15 minutes        1D8         +3
  1 hour            1D10        +4
  4 hours           1D12        +5

Extra Time for a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Specialty Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2 hours             1D0         +1
  4 hours             1D6         +2
  8 hours (1 day)     1D8         +3
  16 hours (2 days)   1D10        +4
  32 hours (4 days)   1D12        +5

Extra Time for a One-Day Task

  Completion Time     Bonus Die   Specialty Rank Required
  ------------------- ----------- -------------------------
  2 days              1D0         +1
  5 days (1 week)     1D6         +2
  10 days (2 weeks)   1D8         +3
  20 days (4 weeks)   1D10        +4
  30 days (6 weeks)   1D12        +5

Repairs

If you can create something, you can repair it as well. A damaged object
gains Malfunctions in the same way that a person gains Wounds. In terms
of game rolls, the object has a certain Drop penalty applied whenever
it’s used – Drop 1 for each Malfunction – or one of its functions simply
stops operating.

The time to repair an object depends on the time it would take to create
a new one of the same type, as shown on the following table.

Repair Time

  Base Crafting Time   Repair Time
  -------------------- -------------
  1 minute             1 minute
  1 hour               1 minute
  1 day                1 hour

You can take extra time or rush the repair if you are able to do the
same when creating the item.

As with normal crafting rolls, you automatically succeed. Each success
point gained reduces the Drop penalty by one, or restores one function
to working order. For every complete set of three Malfunctions you
repair, you have to spend 1 unit of any type of supplies that would be
used to create such an item.

Rushing

You don’t always have the luxury of time when crafting. Perhaps there’s
only 30 minutes until the brigands arrive and you still need to build
that net-flinging mechanical trap you’ve been planning out in your head.
In such a situation, you can rush your work to get it done in time.

If the crafting Specialty has a “Rushing” entry, you can reduce the time
to craft your creation by taking a Drop penalty on your die roll. You
can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra time on. The size of the Drop
penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting, as shown on the
following table:

Rushing also increases the opposition from an automatic success to Easy
(3D6). If you fail on a rushed crafting roll, you expend one unit of
resources as appropriate for your task

Rushing a One-Minute Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  45 seconds        Drop 1
  30 seconds        Drop 2
  2 actions         Drop 3
  1 action          Drop 4

Rushing a One-Hour Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  30 minutes        Drop 1
  15 minutes        Drop 2
  5 minutes         Drop 3
  1 minute          Drop 4

Rushing a One-Day Task

  Completion Time   Drop Penalty
  ----------------- --------------
  6 Hours           Drop 1
  4 Hours           Drop 2
  2 Hours           Drop 3
  1 Hour            Drop 4

Success Limits

You must have at least one rank in a Specialty to be able to craft with
that Specialty. However, a single specialty rank limits the quality of
the item to a basic work. The more specialty ranks you have, the higher
potential you can create.

Each Specialty’s crafting description details the success limits for
crafted items. The maximum values for Item Dice, Charm Dice, Bonus Dice,
and the Standard Opposition (for attempts to escape or undo your
creation) are shown in the following table. The applicable columns of
the table are repeated with each Specialty’s crafting description.

Success Limits

  Specialty Rank   Item Die   Charm Die   Bonus Die   Standard Opposition
  ---------------- ---------- ----------- ----------- -----------------------
  +1               +1D6       +1D6        +1D0        Easy (3D6)
  +2               +1D8       +1D8        +1D6        Moderate (3D8)
  +3               +1D10      +1D10       +1D8        Difficult (3D10)
  +4               +1D12      +1D12       +1D10       Very Difficult (3D12)
  +5               +1D12      +1D12       +1D12       Very Difficult (3D12)

Supplies

The raw materials used in crafting are known as “supplies”. Supplies are
measured in terms of “units” – each unit of supplies is an abstract
amount of the materials for making the simplest item of a given type.

Supplies can be purchased as shown in the following table. All supplies
can be bought in bulk, as described in Chapter 7, “Wealth Rolls.”

Supplies

  Item                     Cost   Use
  ------------------------ ------ -------------------------------------------------
  Alchemical ingredients   1D6    Draughts, salves, concoctions, poison, medicine
  Art media                1D6    Works of art
  Blackpowder charges      1D0    Blackpowder weapons, phlogistone components
  Clockwork gears          1D6    Clockwork devices and components
  Crucible steel           1D6    Weapons, armor, clockwork gears, casings
  Fabric                   1D0    Charmweaving
  Foodstuffs               1D0    Cooking, eating
  Medicine                 1D6    Surgery, treat
  Writing materials        1D0    Reports, written works of art, battle plans

ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS: Chemicals, herbs, rare salts, parts of animals,
and other materials used to create salves, draughts, poison, and
medicine.

ART MEDIA: Supplies for creating works of art, ranging from canvas and
paints to sculpturing clay and marble blocks.

BLACKPOWDER CHARGES: Units of blackpowder that can create explosive
weapons or be purified to produce phlogistone.

CLOCKWORK GEARS: The parts needed to create clockwork components that
are then assembled into clockwork devices.

CRUCIBLE STEEL: Worked metal that can used to make weapons, armor,
clockwork gears, and more.

FABRIC: Cloth, lace, thread, silk, dyes, leather, buttons, and other
materials for making clothing.

FOODSTUFFS: Grains, fruit, meat, cheeses, sugar, eggs, bread, and other
materials for cooking. One unit of uncrafted foodstuffs is enough to
feed one person for one day.

MEDICINE: Medicine, medicinal herbs, and other medical supplies used to
treat injuries, cure diseases, create antidotes, and perform surgery.

WRITING MATERIALS: Paper and ink, used in creating reports, plans, and
written works of art.

Scrounging

If you have neither the necessary supplies on hand nor the ability to
purchase more, you can spend your time scrounging – looking in refuse
bins for art supplies, junk piles for crucible steel, discarded
trimmings for fabric, or roadkill and old fruit for foodstuffs. Every
two hours spent scrounging produces one unit of supplies – as long as
your MJ agrees there are such supplies to be found. If you’re lost in
the middle of a frozen tundra, you probably can’t find blackpowder
charges just waiting for you to come along.

Tag Dice

As described in Chapter 4, “Skills & Specialties”, Tag Dice are a type
of Bonus Dice that are tied to a specific concept. This could be a
single word, an emotion, a Passion, a phrase, or other abstract
constructions. The crafting description for each Specialty describes how
each Tag is created, what you can associate each Tag with, and how you
can increase the Bonus Die size of the Tag.

For example, if you create a painting of Scanbreille Keep as seen from a
grassy meadow, you could assign a Tag of “Peaceful.” The Tag Die starts
at +1D0, and for every 2 success points, you can increase the size of
that die. You can also use success points to add a different Tag, such
as “Loyalty.” These additional dice also start at +1D0.

The Tag Die can be added to a dice pool as a Bonus Die whenever it makes
sense in the story – so if you’re trying to calm down a visiting
dignitary, you might seat her under the painting and add the Peaceful
tag to your Interaction (Negotiate) dice pool. Alternately, if you’re
trying to inspire the soldiers of Scanbreille Keep to stand firm and not
desert in the face of the enemy, you may want to make your Interaction
(Inspire) roll when you stand in front of the painting of the iconic
castle.

Weapon Qualities

When you craft a weapon, it’s assumed to be a “stock” version of that
weapon as described in Chapter 8, “Equipment.” If you want to add
something extra to a crafted weapon, you can add a Weapon Quality to
that weapon. Each specialty’s crafting description lists which qualities
can be given to each type of weapon. The maximum number of Weapon
Qualities you can add to any given weapon equals your rank in the
crafting Specialty.

Rather than repeating the descriptions of Weapon Qualities in each
crafting specialty, they’re listed here for easy reference. You can’t
add the same Weapon Quality twice to a single weapon.

-   CAVALRY: A weapon with the Cavalry quality must be used with your
    Main Hand. If you are using this weapon while riding a mount, you
    can substitute the mount’s Item Die for your Weapon Die against an
    unmounted opponent.
-   DEFENDING: You can use this weapon to make a Defense (Parry) roll
    and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though this type of
    weapon usually can’t be used for parrying.
-   DOUBLE-BARRELED: You can fire twice, once per barrel, without
    reloading. If you choose to fire both barrels in the same shot, the
    Weapon Die increases by one step, but you take a Drop 1 penalty
    because it’s harder to aim. Reloading each barrel separately gives
    the normal Drop penalty for the unaltered weapon, and reloading both
    barrels is a Drop 4 combined action.
-   EXTENDED LONG RANGE: The weapon gains a Drop 2 penalty at Long
    range. This can only be applied to weapons which can’t normally be
    used at Long range, but which can be used at Medium range.
-   EXTENDED MEDIUM RANGE: The weapon gains a Drop 2 penalty at Medium
    range. This can only be applied to weapons which can’t normally be
    used at Medium range.
-   HIGH-CALIBER: Increase the Weapon Die by one step. The Drop penalty
    for reloading the weapon increases by 1, and the Drop penalty at
    Long range increases by 2.
-   LIGHTENED: Decrease the Weapon Die by one step. If the unaltered
    weapon could be used in your main hand, you can now use it in
    either. If the weapon required two hands to use, it can now be used
    with just the main hand. You can’t lighten a weapon that’s been
    weighted.
-   POINT BLANK: Decrease the Drop Penalty for Close range by 2.
-   QUICKLOADING: Decrease the Drop Penalty for reloading this weapon
    by 1.
-   REACH: The weapon can be used to attack into an adjacent area as
    well as your own.
-   RESPONDING: The weapon can be used to make a Dueling (Riposte) roll
    and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though this type of
    weapon usually can’t be used for riposting.
-   RIFLED: Reduce the Drop Penalty at Medium range by 1 and at Long
    range by 1.
-   SPARRING: You can use this weapon to make a Military (Brawl) roll
    and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though weapons
    usually can’t be used with Brawl.
-   SUCCESS TABLE: SPECIALTY (OPTION) You add an option for spending
    success points to a specific Success Table. The details for each
    option are described later in this section.
-   THROWABLE: You can throw this weapon at a target using the Military
    (Aim) skill and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though
    this type of weapon usually can’t be thrown. The weapon has no Drop
    penalty at Close range, Drop 1 at Short range, and Drop 3 at Medium
    range.
-   WEIGHTED: Increase the Weapon Die by one step. If the weapon could
    be used in either hand, it now is only usable in your main hand. If
    the unaltered weapon required your main hand, it now requires both
    hands. You can’t weight a weapon that’s been lightened.

Success Table Options

The Success Table: _Specialty_ quality adds additional options to the
indicated success table.

  Success Table Weapon Qualities   
  -------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  +                                Basket Hilt (Decrease Advantage)
  +                                Retort (Execute a Riposte)
  +++                              Entangling
  +++                              Tripping (Knockdown)
  +++                              Unhorse
  +++                              Wounding (Inflict 1 Wound)
  +++                              Yielding (Inflict 4 Yield)
  ++++                             Disarming
  +++++                            Weapon-Breaking

BASKET HILT: If your opponent has Advantage, you can decrease her die
size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she has +1D6
Advantage. Weapons with this quality are designed for parrying.

DISARMING: You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to
attack you or the weapon she’s using to Parry your attack. (This can’t
be used when defending against a Brawl attack.) You get to choose if the
weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an adjacent Area, or in
your hand if you have one free. Weapons with this quality are designed
for disarming opponents.

ENTANGLING: You successfully catch your opponent with your weapon,
holding them in place. A combatant who is held suffers a Drop 1 penalty
on attack and defense rolls; for every two additional Success Points you
spend, you can increase the Drop penalty by 1, to a maximum of Drop 4.
Your opponent can escape by making a simple check against Standard
Opposition, usually using Brawl or a weapon attack.

RETORT: You can make a Riposte attack. Weapons with this quality are
designed for parrying and allow a Riposte to be made for a lower cost
than usual.

TRIPPING: Your target is knocked prone, either in your Area or in an
adjacent Area. Knocking an opponent into an adjacent Area can result in
them falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. Weapons with this
quality are designed to pull an opponent off her feet.

UNHORSE: If your target is riding a mount, they fall off that mount and
end up prone. Unhorsing an opponent can result in them falling or
otherwise taking environmental damage. In addition, your mount can make
a trample attack right now for free, if it has that quality. Standing up
is a Drop 1 combined action, and remounting is an additional Drop 3
penalty. Weapons with this quality are designed for dismounting
opponents.

WEAPON-BREAKING: You snap your target’s blade or hilt. You can only do
this if your target attempts to Parry your attack and fails, or if you
are performing a Parry yourself. Weapons with this quality are designed
for catching and destroying weapons.

WOUNDING: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds than
her Wound Limit, she falls unconscious and is dying. Weapons with this
quality allow you to inflict Wounds for a lower cost than usual.

YIELDING: Your opponent takes four Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds
her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out. Weapons with this quality allow you
to inflict Yield for a lower cost than usual.

Workrooms

Basic sets of handheld tools are described in Chapter 8, “Equipment,”
and can be used as an Item Die on appropriate crafting rolls.

However, most serious crafting work is done in some kind of dedicated
room or outbuilding. Such workrooms have everything you’d find in a set
of tools, plus additional equipment, furniture, and resources for each
task. These workrooms can provide an Item Die, as shown on the following
table. As you can only have one Item Die per dice pool, you can’t
combine the Item Die from a set of tools with the Item Die from a
workroom.

Workrooms

  Room              Cost   Item Die
  ----------------- ------ ----------
  Artist’s Studio   2D8    +1D8
  Kitchen           2D8    +1D8
  Laboratory        2D10   +1D10
  Library           2D10   +1D10
  Medical Theatre   2D10   +1D10
  Observatory       2D10   +1D10
  Séance Room       2D8    +1D8
  Smithy            2D8    +1D8
  Workshop          2D10   +1D10

Most workrooms are only available in cities, although some smaller towns
might be able to provide an artist’s studio, a kitchen, a séance room,
or a smithy. Setting up a workroom takes 8 hours of work, although that
can be done by either one person or divided among several.

Superior workrooms can be purchased for twice the listed cost and an
Item Die of one step higher. A superior kitchen costs 4D8 and gives a
+1D10 Item Die on rolls for cooking. Superior workrooms take 20 hours to
set up and can only be acquired in large cities.

Crafting Rolls

The following tables are sorted by Specialty name and describe what can
be crafted with each Specialty.

Aim

You can craft bows, muskets, and pistols using the Military (Aim)
specialty.

PROWESS REQUIRED: You can only create bows if you have Bow Prowess,
muskets if you have Musket Prowess, and pistols if you have Pistol
Prowess.

BASE TIME: Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating weapons.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Military (Aim).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Aim (Crafting)   
  ---------------- ----------------------------
  Base Time        1 hour
  Opposition       Automatic Success
  Item Die         Metalworking tools, smithy
  Supplies         Crucible steel
  Bonus Die        Extra time
  +                Craft Short Bow
  ++               Craft Pistol
  +++              Craft Heavy Bow
  +++              Craft Heavy Pistol
  +++              Craft Light Musket
  +++              Add Bow Quality
  +++              Add Pistol Quality
  +++              Add Musket Quality
  ++++             Craft Heavy Musket

CRAFT SHORT BOW: You create any bow with a Weapon Die of +1D6.

CRAFT HEAVY BOW (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any bow a Weapon
Die of +1D8 or higher.

CRAFT PISTOL (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any pistol with a
Weapon Die of +1D6.

CRAFT HEAVY PISTOL (2 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any pistol
with a Weapon die of +1D8 or higher.

CRAFT LIGHT MUSKET (2 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any musket
with a Weapon die of +1D8 or lower.

CRAFT HEAVY MUSKET (4 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any musket
with a Weapon Die of +1D10 or higher.

ADD BOW QUALITY: You can give the bow one of the following qualities:
Cavalry, Defending, Extended Long Range, Point Blank, Quickloading,
Success Table: Aim (Entangling, Wounded, Yielding). The bow can have a
number of custom qualities equal to your Military (Aim) specialty ranks.

ADD PISTOL QUALITY (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the pistol
one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Double-Barreled, Extended
Medium Range, High-Caliber, Point Blank, Quickloading, Specialty Table:
Aim (Wounding). The pistol can have a number of custom qualities equal
to your Military (Aim) specialty ranks.

ADD MUSKET QUALITY (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the musket
one of the following qualities: Defending, Double-Barreled, Extended
Long Range, High-Caliber, Point Blank, Quickloading, Rifled, Success
Table: Aim (Tripping, Unhorse, Wounding). The musket can have a number
of custom qualities equal to your Military (Aim) specialty ranks.

Arts

The Culture (Arts) specialty allows you to create works of art. The
types of works include drawings, paintings, poetry, sculptures, plays,
songs, opera, novellas, or even cake decorating.

BASE TIME: The base time depends on the type of artistic endeavor. Most
simple works of art will take a minimum of 1 hour, such as Writing
materials a poem, composing a melody, or sketching a drawing.
Sculptures, paintings, novellas, acts of plays, chapters of novels, and
other longer forms have a base time of 1 day.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your artisan tools or artist’s studio to
your dice pool.

SUPPLIES: art media are usually required, although poetry, plays,
novellas, and songs require Writing materials supplies, and cake
decorating requires foodstuffs.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Culture (Arts).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Arts (Crafting)   
  ----------------- -----------------------------------------
  Base Time         1 hour or 1 day
  Opposition        Automatic Success
  Item Die          Artisan tools or artist’s studio
  Supplies          art media or Writing materials supplies
  Bonus Die         Extra Time
  +                 Craft Artwork
  +                 Add a Tag
  ++                Improve Artwork
  ++++              Reduce Material Cost
  +++++             Create Forgery
  ++++++            Pièce de Résistance!

CRAFT ARTWORK (1 UNIT OF ART MEDIA): You create a basic item of art.
Choose a one-word Tag, usually associated with an emotion, place, or
concept. The Tag has a Bonus Die of +1D0, and can be used when
displaying or performing the work of art.

ADD A TAG: You can add another Tag to your artwork. The new Tag has a
Bonus Die of +1D0.

IMPROVE ARTWORK (1 UNIT OF ART MEDIA): The Bonus Die of one Tag improves
by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you
have in Culture (Arts).

REDUCE MATERIAL COST: You reduce the overall cost of this Crafting roll
by one unit of art media.

CREATE FORGERY (1 UNIT OF ART MEDIA): You make a copy of someone else’s
artwork. It’s indistinguishable from the original except on close
examination. The forgery has no Tags attached, but you can use success
points to add a Tag. The Standard Opposition to an Arts or Perception
roll to detect the work as a forgery is Easy (3D6). For every 2
additional success points you spend, the difficulty increases by one
step, limited by your number of ranks in Culture (Arts).

PIÈCE DE RÉSISTANCE!: You create a work of art that will be spoken of
for decades, if not centuries. Any Tag Die on the work of art is
automatically maximized when used as a Bonus Die.

Blackpowder

You can craft blackpowder weapons such as grenades and cannons. You can
also work with phlogistone to create phlogistone furnaces or other uses
of phlogistone.

BASE TIME: Working with blackpowder typical requires one hour, while
working with phlogistone takes one day.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools, smithy, or
workshop to your dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Blackpowder charges are required for all crafting with this
specialty, and crucible steel for most uses. In addition, many types of
explosives require additional materials as shown on the following table.

Crafting Blackpowder Items

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Blackpowder    Additional Materials
  Item           
  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  Bomb,          8 units of alchemical ingredients, 1 unit of crucible
  alchemical     steel

  Bomb, canister 4 units of blackpowder charges, 4 units of crucible
                 steel

  Bomb, heavy    8 units of blackpowder charges, 4 units of crucible
                 steel

  Bomb, mining   4 units of blackpowder charges

  Bomb, smoke    4 units of alchemical supplies

  Bomb,          6 units of blackpowder charges, 2 units of crucible
  structure      steel

  Bomb, thunder  4 units of blackpowder charges

  Bomb, wildfire 2 units of blackpowder charges, 4 units of alchemical
                 ingredients, 1 unit of crucible steel

  Cannon shot,   1 unit of blackpowder charges, 2 units of alchemical
  alchemical     ingredients

  Cannon shot,   4 units of blackpowder charges
  blackpowder    

  Cannon shot,   1 unit of blackpowder charges, 2 units of crucible steel
  canister       

  Cannon shot,   1 unit of blackpowder charges, 1 unit of crucible steel
  chain          

  Cannon shot,   1 unit of crucible steel
  round          

  Cannon shot,   1 unit of blackpowder charges, 1 unit of alchemical
  smoke          ingredients

  Cannon shot,   2 units of blackpowder charges
  thunder        

  Cannon shot,   1 unit of blackpowder charges, 2 units of alchemical
  wildfire       ingredients

  Grenade        1 unit of blackpowder charges

  Grenade,       1 unit of alchemical ingredients
  alchemical     

  Grenade,       1 unit of crucible steel
  canister       

  Grenade, smoke 1 unit of alchemical ingredients

  Grenade,       1 unit of blackpowder charges
  thunder        

  Grenade,       1 unit of alchemical ingredients
  wildfire       
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Science (Blackpowder).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Blackpowder (Crafting)   
  ------------------------ -----------------------------------------
  Base Time                1 hour, or 1 day (varies)
  Opposition               Automatic Success
  Item Die                 Metalworking tools, smithy, or workshop
  Supplies                 Blackpowder charges and crucible steel
  Bonus Die                Extra Time
  +                        Craft Fireworks
  +                        Craft Grenade
  ++                       Craft Bomb
  ++                       Craft Cannon Shot
  +++                      Craft Cannon
  +++++                    Craft Heavy Cannon
  ++++++                   Create Phlogistone Furnace

CRAFT FIREWORKS (1 UNIT OF BLACKPOWDER CHARGES): You create a number of
fireworks equal to your ranks in Science (Blackpowder).

CRAFT GRENADE (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any grenade. You
must also spend an additional amount of supplies as noted in the table
above.

CRAFT BOMB (2 UNIT OF BLACKPOWDER CHARGES, 1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL):
You create any bomb. You must also spend an additional amount of
supplies as noted in the table above.

CRAFT CANNON SHOT (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any type of
cannon shot. You must also spend an additional amount of supplies as
noted in the table above.

CRAFT CANNON (2 UNITS OF BLACKPOWDER CHARGES, 3 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE
STEEL): You create any cannon up to furniture scale in size, or a hand
mortar. If the cannon is furniture scale, spend an additional 3 units of
crucible steel.

CRAFT HEAVY CANNON (5 UNITS OF BLACKPOWDER CHARGES, 20 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE
STEEL): You create any cannon of room scale.

CRAFT PHLOGISTONE FURNACE (12 UNITS OF BLACKPOWDER CHARGES, 10 UNITS OF
CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create a phlogistone furnace with an Item Die of
+1D10. You must have at least +4 ranks in Science (Blackpowder). If you
have +5 ranks, you can spend an additional 2 success points, 3 units of
blackpowder charges, and 5 units of crucible steel to create a furnace
with a +1D12 Item Die.

Block

You can craft Rigid Armor using the Block specialty.

PROWESS REQUIRED: You can only create rigid armor if you have Rigid
Armor Prowess.

BASE TIME: Crafting armor takes 1 day.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating armor.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Defense (Block).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your armor by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Block (Crafting)   
  ------------------ ----------------------------
  Base Time          1 day
  Opposition         Automatic Success
  Item Die           Metalworking tools, smithy
  Supplies           Crucible steel
  Bonus Die          Extra time
  +                  Craft Metal Item
  +                  Craft Rigid Armor
  +++                Improved Rigid Armor
  +++++              Superior Rigid Armor

CRAFT METAL ITEM (1 OR MORE UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create a metal
item such as tailoring tools.

CRAFT RIGID ARMOR (2 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any rigid
armor with an Armor Die of +1D8 or lower.

IMPROVED RIGID ARMOR (4 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any rigid
armor with an Armor Die of +1D10.

SUPERIOR RIGID ARMOR (6 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any rigid
armor with an Armor Die of +1D12.

Brawl

You can craft cudgels using the Military (Brawl) specialty.

PROWESS REQUIRED: You can only create cudgels if you have Cudgel
Prowess.

BASE TIME: Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating cudgels.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Military (Brawl).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Brawl (Crafting)   
  ------------------ ----------------------------
  Base Time          1 hour
  Opposition         Automatic Success
  Item Die           Metalworking tools, smithy
  Supplies           Crucible steel
  Bonus Die          Extra time
  +                  Craft Light Cudgel
  ++                 Craft Heavy Cudgel
  +++                Add Cudgel Quality

CRAFT LIGHT CUDGEL: You create any cudgel with a Weapon Die of +1D6.

CRAFT HEAVY CUDGEL (2 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any cudgel
with a Weapon Die of +1D8 or more

ADD CUDGEL QUALITY (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the cudgel
one of the following qualities: Defending, Reach, Sparring, Success
Table: Lunge (Wounding), Weighted. The cudgel can have a number of
custom qualities equal to your Military (Brawl) specialty ranks.

Brew

You can craft draughts and salves using your skills at alchemy. You can
also create medicine and poison antidotes.

BASE TIME: Brewing takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your alchemy tools or laboratory to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Crafting with Brew requires the expenditure of alchemical
ingredients.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Magicks (Brew).

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Magicks (Brew).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Brew (Crafting)   
  ----------------- ------------------------------
  Base Time         1 hour
  Opposition        Automatic Success
  Item Die          Alchemy tools or workshop
  Supplies          Alchemical ingredients
  Bonus Die         Extra time or extra supplies
  +                 Brew Alchemical Substance
  +                 Create medicine
  +                 Increase Quantity
  ++                Increase Potency
  ++++              Reduce Material Cost
  ++++++            Eureka!

BREW ALCHEMICAL SUBSTANCE (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create
one dose of a salve or draught listed in Chapter 9, “Specialized Gear”.
The substance has a Charm Die of +1D6.

CREATE MEDICINE (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create two units
of medicine for every success point and unit of alchemical ingredients
you spend.

INCREASE QUANTITY (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You make another
salve or draught for each success point you spent. The Charm Die of the
additional doses is the same as the original; you only need to increase
the potency for one dose.

INCREASE POTENCY (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): The Charm Die of
the salve or draught improves by one die size. You are limited by the
number of specialty ranks you have in Magicks (Brew).

REDUCE MATERIAL COST: You reduce the overall cost of this Crafting roll
by one unit of alchemical ingredients.

EUREKA! (2 UNITS OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You invent a new draught,
salve, or concoction that hasn’t been brewed before. Work with your MJ
to determine the exact result of your new formulation. It has an initial
Charm Die of +1D6.

Calculus

You can draw plans, create algorithms, or derive theorems using the
Science (Calculus) specialty.

BASE TIME: Creating something with Calculus takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your abacus or other calculation tool when
using Calculus.

SUPPLIES: The use of Science (Calculus) requires writing materials.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Science (Calculus).

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Science (Calculus).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Calculus (Crafting)   
  --------------------- ---------------------------------
  Base Time             1 hour
  Opposition            Automatic Success
  Item Die              Abacus or other calculation aid
  Supplies              Supplies (varies)
  Bonus Die             Extra time, extra supplies
  +                     Draw Plans
  ++                    Design Algorithm
  ++++++                Eureka! Eureka!

DRAW PLANS (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create plans for a
clockwork component or a clockwork device. The plans have a Bonus Die of
+0D6 for attempts to create that component, or assemble that device. For
every 2 success points and 2 units of writing materials you spend, the
Bonus Die of the plans improves by one die size, limited by your ranks
in Science (Calculus).

DESIGN ALGORITHM (2 UNITS OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create and write
down an algorithm with an Item Die of +1D6. The algorithm is a set of
instructions for performing some task involving calculation, such as
navigation, drawing plans, or preparing a meal. (An algorithm for making
food is known as a recipe.) For every 2 success points and 2 units of
writing materials you spend, the Item Die of the algorithm improves by
one die size, limited by your ranks in Science (Calculus).

EUREKA! EUREKA! (6 UNITS OF WRITING MATERIALS): You’ve derived a
completely new theorem or solution to a problem, such as measuring the
volume of an object by submerging it in water. (You’re not required to
run naked through the streets, though.) You need to have at least +4
ranks in Science (Calculus) for this. If you share this with other
mathematicians or scientists, they’ll probably name the discovery after
you.

Carouse

You can use Streetwise (Carouse) to craft alcoholic beverages.

BASE TIME: Crafting alcohol takes 1 day.

SUPPLIES: Foodstuffs are required for creating alcohol.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
Streetwise (Carouse).

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Streetwise (Carouse).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Carouse (Crafting)   
  -------------------- ----------------------------
  Base Time            1 day
  Opposition           Automatic Success
  Supplies             Foodstuffs
  Bonus Die            Extra time, extra supplies
  +                    Craft Brewed Alcohol
  ++                   Craft Wine
  ++                   Improved Alcohol
  +++                  Craft Spirits

CRAFT BREWED ALCOHOL (1 UNIT OF FOODSTUFFS): You create a night’s worth
of cheap beer, ale, or cider for one person. For each additional success
point you spend, you create another night’s worth.

CRAFT WINE (1 UNIT OF FOODSTUFFS): You create a bottle of wine of
average quality. You can create another bottle of the same thing by
spending another 1 success point and 1 unit of foodstuffs.

IMPROVED ALCOHOL (1 UNIT OF FOODSTUFFS): The quality of your alcohol
increases to “good,” and if you spend another 2 success points and 1
unit of foodstuffs, to “really good”.

CRAFT SPIRITS (1 UNIT OF FOODSTUFFS): You create a bottle or flask of
average quality spirits. For each additional success point and unit of
foodstuffs you spend, you create another bottle.

Clockworks

You can clockwork devices, casings, and components with the Science
(Clockworks) specialty.

BASE TIME: Crafting clockwork items requires 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your repair tools or workshop to your dice
pool.

SUPPLIES: Clockwork gears are required for creating anything with
Clockworks, except for clockwork gears – which require crucible steel.

PLANS: If you have plans for the type of device or component you’re
trying to create, add the Bonus Die of the plans to your dice pool.
Plans are created with the Science (Calculus) specialty.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting a clockwork item to add
a Bonus Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your
number of ranks in Science (Clockworks).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your clockwork item by taking
a Drop penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking
extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush
the crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Clockworks (Crafting)   
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------
  Base Time               1 hour
  Opposition              Automatic Success
  Item Die                Clockwork tools,
  Supplies                Clockwork gears or crucible steel
  Bonus Die               Extra time, plans
  +                       Craft Component
  +                       Craft Clockwork Gears
  +                       Craft Casing
  ++                      Assemble Device
  +++++                   Duplicate A Device

CRAFT COMPONENT (1 OR MORE UNITS OF CLOCKWORK GEARS): You create a
clockwork component. If it has an Item Die, it starts at +1D6. For each
additional success point you spend, the Item Die increases one step,
limited by your ranks in Science (Clockworks).

CRAFT CLOCKWORK GEARS (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create two units
of clockwork gears. For each additional unit of crucible steel you
spend, you create another two units of clockwork gears.

CRAFT CASING (1 OR MORE UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create a casing
for a clockwork device. The amount of steel you must spend depends on
the size of the casing.

ASSEMBLE DEVICE: You complete a clockwork device. You must have all of
the device’s components in order to assemble it.

CRAFT POWER SOURCE (SPECIAL): You create a power source that can be
installed in a device. The supplies cost varies depending on the type of
power source you’re using.

DUPLICATE A DEVICE (SPECIAL): You create a duplicate of an existing
clockwork device. You must spend the same amount and type of supplies to
create the duplicate as was spent to create the original.

Deceive

You can create an alternate identity for yourself, including creating a
disguise, by using the Interaction (Deceive) specialty.

BASE TIME: Crafting an identity takes 1 day.

SUPPLIES: Fabric or alchemical components may be required for certain
aspects of your new identity

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in the Specialty.

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your identity by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Deceive (Crafting)   
  -------------------- -------------------------------
  Base Time            1 day
  Opposition           Automatic Success
  Supplies             Fabric, alchemical components
  Bonus Die            Extra Time
  +                    Craft Identity
  +                    Make a Connection
  +                    Maintain Identity
  ++                   Improve Identity
  +++++                Assume Someone’s Identity
  ++++++               Persistent Identity

CRAFT IDENTITY (1 UNIT OF FABRIC): You create an alternate identity.
That identity has a different name from you, although it otherwise has
all the same qualities as you (general appearance, gender, etc). To
casual observers, though, you’re different people – perhaps you put on a
pair of spectacles in your new identity? You have a +1D0 Bonus Die when
trying to pass yourself off as your new identity. Your identity lasts
for up to 24 hours.

You can spend additional success points to alter your appearance. Each
alteration you make to your appearance costs 1 success point and one
additional unit of supplies, as shown on the following table.

Identity Changes

  Alteration             Supplies Cost
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------
  Apparent age           1 unit of alchemical ingredients
  Apparent gender        1 unit of fabric
  Apparent height        1 unit of fabric
  Apparent nationality   1 unit of alchemical ingredients
  Apparent weight        1 unit of fabric
  Hair color             1 unit of alchemical ingredients
  Hair style             1 unit of alchemical ingredients

IMPROVE IDENTITY: The Bonus Die afforded by your false identity improves
by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty ranks you
have in Interaction (Deceive).

MAKE A CONNECTION: You go out in public and are seen are by one
reputable person who will unwittingly vouch for your identity. Each
additional success point gives you another person who thinks you’re who
you’re pretending to be.

MAINTAIN IDENTITY: Your identity lasts an additional 24 hours for every
extra success point you spend. While your identity is active, you can
make another Deceive roll to extend the duration; the cost to make this
roll is equal to your original supplies cost for Craft Identity. You can
only spend your success points on Make Connection, Maintain Identity,
Improve Identity, or Persistent Identity if you make such a roll.

ASSUME SOMEONE’S IDENTITY (3 UNITS OF FABRIC, 3 UNITS OF ALCHEMICAL
INGREDIENTS): You disguise yourself as a specific person, adopting their
appearance and identity.

PERSISTENT IDENTITY: The identity you’ve crafted is so airtight that you
can maintain it indefinitely without being discovered.

Explore

You can craft maps, globes, rations, shelters, rafts, and other survival
gear with the Nature (Explore) specialty.

BASE TIME: Crafting a quick map or rations takes 1 hour. Crafting
survival gear creation takes 1 day.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your tools or workroom to your dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Supplies are required for crafting with this Specialty.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Nature (Explore).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft by taking a Drop penalty on
your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra time on.
The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Explore (Crafting)   
  -------------------- ----------------------
  Base Time            1 hour or 1 day
  Opposition           Automatic Success
  Item Die             Varies
  Supplies             Varies
  Bonus Die            Extra Time
  +                    Craft Map
  +                    Prepare Rations
  ++                   Improve Map or Globe
  +++                  Craft Globe
  ++++                 Build Shelter
  +++++                Build Raft

CRAFT MAP (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a map of either the
local region or somewhere you’ve been. The map gives an Item Bonus of
+1D6 on navigation, food gathering, and trailblazing in that area. You
can also create a copy of any map you have access to.

PREPARE RATIONS (1 UNIT OF FOODSTUFFS): You create three days’ worth of
jerky and dried fruits that are easily portable and won’t go bad. For
each additional success point and unit of foodstuffs, you create another
three days’ worth.

IMPROVE MAP OR GLOBE: You increase the detail and information on your
map or globe. The Item Bonus increases by one die size, limited by your
ranks in Nature (Explore).

CRAFT GLOBE (3 UNITS OF ART MEDIA): You create a globe of the planet
Arrete. This globe gives an Item Bonus of +1D6 on navigation between
relatively large land masses and major settlements.

BUILD SHELTER: You create a shelter that can withstand the current
weather for 24 hours. The duration increases by 24 hours for every
additional success point you spend.

BUILD RAFT: You create a crude raft. It can stay together for 4 hours,
although each hour of inclement weather or rapids counts as two hours.
The duration increases by 4 hours or every additional success point you
spend.

Feint

You can craft whips and nets using the Feint specialty.

PROWESS REQUIRED: You can only create whips if you have Whip Prowess,
and nets if you have Net Prowess.

BASE TIME: Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of fabric are required for creating whips or nets.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Dueling (Feint).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Feint (Crafting)   
  ------------------ -------------------
  Base Time          1 hour
  Opposition         Automatic Success
  Supplies           Fabric
  Bonus Die          Extra time
  +                  Craft Net
  +                  Craft Whip
  +++                Add Net Quality
  +++                Add Whip Quality

CRAFT NET (1 UNIT OF FABRIC): You create any net.

CRAFT WHIP (1 UNIT OF FABRIC): You create any whip.

ADD NET QUALITY (1 UNIT OF FABRIC OR CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the
net one of the following qualities: Reach, Specialty Table: Feint
(Entangling, Tripping), Throwable, Weighted. The net can have a number
of custom qualities equal to your Dueling (Feint) specialty ranks.

ADD WHIP QUALITY (1 UNIT OF FABRIC OR CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the
whip one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Reach, Responding,
Sparring, Success Table: Feint (Disarming, Entangling, Unhorse,
Wounding), Weighted. The whip can have a number of custom qualities
equal to your Dueling (Feint) specialty ranks.

Husbandry

You can use the Nature (Husbandry) specialty to harvest crops, slaughter
animals, prepare meals, and create leather armor and other leather
goods.

BASE TIME: Each use of Nature (Husbandry) takes one hour.

ITEM DIE: You can add the Item Die of cooking utensils or a kitchen
while preparing food; and you can add the Item Die of tailoring tools
when making flexible armor.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of foodstuffs are needed only if you are preparing
food. Creating armor requires fabric and possibly

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Nature (Husbandry).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to use Nature (Husbandry) by taking a
Drop penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking
extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush
the crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Husbandry (Crafting)   
  ---------------------- -------------------------
  Base Time              1 hour
  Opposition             Automatic Success
  Item Die               Tools (varies)
  Supplies               Supplies (varies)
  Bonus Die              Extra Time
  +                      Craft Flexible Armor
  +                      Craft Leather Item
  +                      Prepare Food
  +++                    Improved Flexible Armor
  +++++                  Superior Flexible Armor

CRAFT FLEXIBLE ARMOR (1 UNIT OF FABRIC): You create any flexible armor
with a +1D6 Armor Die.

CRAFT LEATHER ITEM (1 OR MORE UNITS OF FABRIC): You create a leather
item such as a saddle, belt, or pouch.

PREPARE FOOD (1 UNIT OF FOODSTUFFS): You create a meal (or several
smaller meals) that are enough to feed two people for 1 day. For each
additional unit of foodstuffs you spend, you can feed another two
people. The food becomes inedible after 24 hours, but you can extend
this duration by 24 hours for every additional success point you spend.

IMPROVED FLEXIBLE ARMOR (2 UNITS OF FABRIC, 1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL):
You create any flexible armor with an Armor Die of +1D8.

SUPERIOR FLEXIBLE ARMOR (2 UNITS OF FABRIC, 2 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL):
You create any flexible armor with an Armor Die of +1D10 or higher.

Larceny

You can create forged documents, imitation jewelry, locks, traps, and
alarms with the Streetwise (Larceny) specialty.

BASE TIME: Creating a forgery or an obstacle takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your repair tools or workshop to your dice
pool when working with locks or traps.

SUPPLIES: Clockwork gears are required for creating locks or traps,
Writing materials materials are required for forging documents, and art
media for duplicating jewelry.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Streetwise (Larceny).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Larceny (Crafting)   
  -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Base Time            1 hour
  Opposition           Automatic Success
  Item Die             Repair tools or workshop for obstacles
  Supplies             Clockwork gears, writing materials, or art media
  Bonus Die            Extra time
  +                    Craft Obstacle
  ++                   Improve Obstacle Quality
  +++++                Forge Document
  +++++                Duplicate Jewelry

CRAFT OBSTACLE (1 UNIT OF CLOCKWORK GEARS): You create a simple lock,
alarm, or trap. Attempts to install or bypass the obstacle are made
against Standard Opposition of Easy (3D6).

IMPROVE OBSTACLE QUALITY (1 UNIT OF CLOCKWORK GEARS): The quality of
obstacle improves, increasing the Standard Opposition for attempts to
disable or bypass the obstacle. You are limited by the number of
specialty ranks you have in Streetwise (Larceny).

FORGE DOCUMENT (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a forgery of a
document. The standard opposition to detect the deception is Easy (3D6)
and improves by one die size for every 2 additional success points you
spend, limited by your Streetwise (Larceny).

DUPLICATE JEWELRY (2 UNITS OF ART MEDIA): You create a piece of jewelry
that appears to be expensive and valuable, but is actually worthless
crystal, glass, or shiny metals. The standard opposition to detect that
the jewelry isn’t real starts at Easy (3D6) and improves by one die size
for every 2 additional success points and 1 unit of art media you spend.

Lunge

You can craft polearms and swords with the Dueling (Lunge) specialty.

PROWESS REQUIRED: You can only create polearms if you have Polearm
Prowess, and swords if you have Sword Prowess.

BASE TIME: Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating weapons.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Defense (Parry).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Lunge (Crafting)   
  ------------------ ----------------------------
  Base Time          1 hour
  Opposition         Automatic Success
  Item Die           Metalworking tools, smithy
  Supplies           Crucible steel
  Bonus Die          Extra time
  +                  Craft Light Sword
  ++                 Craft Long Sword
  ++++               Craft Great Sword
  +                  Craft Short Polearm
  +++                Craft Long Polearm
  +++                Add Sword Quality
  +++                Add Polearm Quality

CRAFT LIGHT SWORD (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any sword that
has the Either Hand quality.

CRAFT LONG SWORD (2 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can create any sword
that has the Main Hand quality.

CRAFT GREAT SWORD (4 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can create any sword
that has the Both Hands quality.

CRAFT SHORT POLEARM (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can create any
polearm that doesn’t have reach.

CRAFT LONG POLEARM (3 UNITS OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can create any
polearm that has the Reach quality.

ADD SWORD QUALITY (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the sword one
of the following qualities: Cavalry, Lightened, Success Table: Lunge
(Wounding, Yielding, Unhorse), Success Table: Parry (Basket Hilt),
Weighted. The weapon can have a number of custom qualities equal to your
Dueling (Lunge) specialty ranks.

ADD POLEARM QUALITY (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the polearm
one of the following qualities: Cavalry, Lightened, Parrying, Reach,
Success Table: Lunge (Disarming, Knockdown, Unhorse), Throwable,
Weighted. The weapon can have a number of custom qualities equal to your
Dueling (Lunge) specialty ranks.

Negotiate

You can craft legal documents, including business contracts, treaties,
bills of sale, identity papers, and more, by using the Interaction
(Negotiate) specialty.

BASE TIME: Crafting a contract, treaty, or identity papers takes one
hour, and crafting a bill of sale takes one minute.

SUPPLIES: Crafting any sort of document requires writing materials.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Interaction (Negotiate).

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Negotiate (Crafting)   
  ---------------------- -----------------------------
  Base Time              1 minute or 1 hour
  Opposition             Automatic Success
  Supplies               Writing materials materials
  Bonus Die              Extra time
  +                      Craft Basic Document
  ++                     Improve Document
  +++                    Craft Complex Document
  +++++                  Forge Document
  ++++++                 Include Loophole

CRAFT BASIC DOCUMENT (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a basic
legal document, such as a bill of sale. If signed by at least one party
and used in later negotiations, it provides you with a +1D0 Bonus Die.

IMPROVE DOCUMENT (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): The document’s Bonus Die
improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of specialty
ranks you have in Interaction (Negotiate).

CRAFT COMPLEX DOCUMENT (5 UNITS OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a
complex legal document, such as a treaty, a business contract, or
identity papers. If signed by all parties involved and used in later
negotiations, it provides you with a +1D0 Bonus Die.

FORGE DOCUMENT: The document you create isn’t actually legally binding,
but it looks authentic to casual inspection – including any signatures
you have access to. You can only do this with a basic document, or with
the signatures on a complex document. The standard opposition for
attempts to detect the forgery starts at Easy (3D6) and increases by one
die size for every 2 success points you spend.

INCLUDE LOOPHOLE (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You add a loophole into
the document that renders the document null and void under a specific
circumstance. You decide that circumstance when you create the document,
but it’s not obvious to any other parties to the agreement. You can
choose to reveal the loophole whenever the circumstances are right. You
can only do this with a complex document.

Parry

You can craft shields using the Parry specialty.

PROWESS REQUIRED: You can only create shields if you have Shield
Prowess.

BASE TIME: Crafting a shield takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating shields.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Defense (Parry).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Parry (Crafting)   
  ------------------ ----------------------------
  Base Time          1 hour
  Opposition         Automatic Success
  Item Die           Metalworking tools, smithy
  Supplies           Crucible steel
  Bonus Die          Extra time
  +                  Craft Light Shield
  ++                 Shield Spike
  +++                Craft Standard Shield
  +++++              Craft Heavy Shield
  ++++++             Perfectly Balanced

CRAFT LIGHT SHIELD (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any shield
with an Item Die of +1D6.

SHIELD SPIKE (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You affix a spike the shield
you’ve created, letting its Shield Die be used as a Weapon Die for Lunge
and Riposte. The wielder must have both Shield Prowess and Knife Prowess
to include that Weapon die in any dice pool.

CRAFT STANDARD SHIELD (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any shield
with an item die of +1D8.

CRAFT HEAVY SHIELD (2 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any shield
with an item die of +1D10.

PERFECTLY BALANCED (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): The shield is perfectly
balanced for throwing. If the wielder has Shield Prowess and Cudgel
Prowess, its Shield Die can be used as a Weapon Die for Lunge, Riposte,
and Aim (+++: Shield Rebounds to Thrower, Close Range Drop 0, Short
Range Drop 0, Medium Range Drop 2).

Poison

You can craft poisons and antidotes with Medicine (Poison) specialty.

BASE TIME: Crafting poison or antidote takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your alchemy tools or laboratory to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Alchemical ingredients are required for crafting poisons and
antidotes.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Medicine (Poison).

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Medicine (Poison).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Poison (Crafting)   
  ------------------- -----------------------------
  Base Time           1 hour
  Opposition          Automatic Success
  Item Die            Alchemy tools or laboratory
  Supplies            Alchemical ingredients
  Bonus Die           Extra time, extra supplies
  +                   Craft Standard Poison
  +                   Craft Antidote
  +                   Increase Quantity
  +                   Add Time Delay
  ++                  Add Stage
  ++                  Improve Potency
  +++                 Craft Exotic Poison
  +++                 Craft Exotic Antidote
  ++++                Reduce Material Cost
  +++++               Develop Antidote
  ++++++              Eureka!

CRAFT STANDARD POISON (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create one
dose of a standard type of poison with an Item Die of +1D6. Standard
poisons are listed in Chapter 9, “Specialized Gear.”

CRAFT ANTIDOTE (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create two doses
of poison antidote. The antidote gives a +1D6 Item Die on attempts to
cure poisons.

INCREASE QUANTITY (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You make another
dose of poison or two doses of antidote for each success point and unit
of alchemical ingredients you spend. The Item Die of the additional
doses is the same as the original; you only need to increase the
potency, add a delay, or add a stage for one dose.

ADD TIME DELAY (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): The poison doesn’t
take effect until 1 hour after being introduced to the victim’s system
for each success point and unit of alchemical ingredients you spend. The
maximum number of hours you can delay the effects is equal to your ranks
in Poison (Medicine)

ADD STAGE (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create a staged poison
– the individual components are harmless but when all are combined
together the poison takes effect. Applications of the stages must take
place within an hour of the first stage, or the poison loses all
potency. The maximum number of stages you can create is equal to your
ranks in Poison (Medicine); if you just have +1 rank, you can’t create a
staged poison.

IMPROVE POTENCY (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You increase the
Item Die of the poison or antidote by one die size. You are limited by
the number of specialty ranks you have in Poison (Medicine).

CRAFT EXOTIC POISON (3 UNITS OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create one
dose of a rare poison. The poison has an Item Die of +1D6, and it can
only be neutralized by a dose of exotic antidote created specifically
for this toxin.

CRAFT EXOTIC ANTIDOTE (3 UNITS OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create
one dose of an antidote formulated against a specific exotic poison. The
antidote has an Item Die of +1D6, and is only effective against that
single toxin.

DEVELOP ANTIDOTE (3 UNITS OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS, 1 DOSE OF THE
POISON IN QUESTION OR A POISONED VICTIM): You create one dose of an
antidote formulated against an unknown poison or unique poison. The
antidote has an Item Die of +1D6, and is only effective against that
single toxin. Now that you’ve created the cure, you can create it as an
“exotic antidote”, as can anyone who you instruct in the process.

EUREKA! (5 UNITS OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You’ve managed to mix up a
unique poison that is resistant to the normal antidotes. The poison’s
Item Die is +1D6. Now that you have created it, you can create it as an
“exotic poison”, as can anyone who you instruct in the process. In
addition, you can also create an antidote to your own creation.

Portents

You can craft divination cards, astrological charts, and bibelots with
the Magicks (Portents) specialty.

BASE TIME: Using Magicks (Portents) to draw astrological charts or
encharm bibelots takes one hour. Crafting divination cards takes one
day.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your tools or workroom to your dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Art media is required to produce items using Magicks
(Portents).

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Magicks (Portents).

RUSHING: You can reduce your crafting time by taking a Drop penalty on
your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra time on.
The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Portents (Crafting)   
  --------------------- -----------------------------
  Base Time             1 hour or 1 day
  Opposition            Automatic Success
  Item Die              Artisan tools, seance room
  Supplies              Art media
  Bonus Die             Extra Time
  +                     Draw Astrological Charts
  ++                    Improve Astrological Charts
  +++                   Encharm Bibelot
  +++++                 Create Divination Cards

DRAW ASTROLOGICAL CHARTS (1 UNIT OF ART MEDIA): You create a set of
astrological charts for someone based on the place, date, and time of
her birth. (Incorrect information will, of course, produce useless
charts!) The charts you create provide you with a +1D6 Item Die for
Magicks (Portents) rolls on that person.

IMPROVE ASTROLOGICAL CHARTS (1 UNIT OF ART MEDIA): The Item Die of the
astrological charts improves by one die size. The Item Die is limited by
the number of specialty ranks you have in Magicks (Portents).

ENCHARM BIBELOT (1 UNIT OF ART MEDIA): You create a single bibelot
encharmed with a skill of your choice. (See Chapter 9, “Specialty Gear”,
for details on bibelots.)

CREATE DIVINATION CARDS (5 UNITS OF ART MEDIA): You create a
personalized deck of divination cards, either for yourself or for
someone whom you have astrological charts. The deck has an Item Die of
+1D6 which increases by one step for each additional success point you
spend, limited by the number of specialty ranks you in Magicks
(Portents). Your own deck also has a Bonus Die of +1D0, and you can
increase that by one step for each additional success point, limited by
your Portents ranks.

Riposte

You can craft knives with the Riposte specialty.

PROWESS REQUIRED: You can only create knives if you have Knife Prowess.

BASE TIME: Crafting a weapon takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your metalworking tools or smithy to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Supplies of crucible steel are required for creating weapons.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Defense (Riposte).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Riposte (Crafting)   
  -------------------- ----------------------------
  Base Time            1 hour
  Opposition           Automatic Success
  Item Die             Metalworking tools, smithy
  Supplies             Crucible steel
  Bonus Die            Extra time
  +                    Craft Light Knife
  ++                   Craft Long Knife
  +++                  Add Knife Quality

CRAFT LIGHT KNIFE (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You create any knife with
the Either Hand quality.

CRAFT LONG KNIFE (2 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can create any knife
with the Main Hand quality.

ADD KNIFE QUALITY (1 UNIT OF CRUCIBLE STEEL): You can give the knife one
of the following qualities: Lightened, Medium Range, Sparring, Success
Table: Riposte (Disarming, Wounding), Success Table: Success Table:
Feint (Retort), Success Table: Parry (Basket Hilt, Disarming,
Weapon-Catching), Throwable, Weighted. The weapon can have a number of
custom qualities equal to your Dueling (Riposte) specialty ranks

Scholarship

You can craft reports and research summaries for your own use or the use
of others. Each report has to be on a very specific topic, such as “The
Effect of Climate Change on Gallinean Commerce in the 11th Century.”

You can also craft one chapter of a non-fiction book, with a broader
topic such as “Climate Change in Gallinea” or “Economics of the 11th
Century.”

BASE TIME: Crafting a report takes 1 hour. Crafting a book chapter takes
1 day.

RESEARCH REQUIRED: You must either have first-hand knowledge of the
topic or use Culture (Scholarship) to do research of at least 1 hour for
a report and 1 day for a book chapter.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your applicable reference book or library
to your dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Crafting a report or book chapter requires Writing materials
supplies.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Culture (Scholarship).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your report by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Scholarship (Crafting)   
  ------------------------ -----------------------------
  Base Time                1 hour
  Opposition               Automatic Success
  Item Die                 Books, library
  Supplies                 Writing materials materials
  Bonus Die                Extra time
  +                        Craft Report
  ++                       Improve Writing
  +++                      Translate a Passage
  +++                      Craft Book Chapter
  ++++++                   Eureka!

CRAFT REPORT (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a basic report on
a narrow topic. The report has a +1D6 Item Die that can be used in
Scholarship or Knowledge rolls related to the topic.

IMPROVE WRITING (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): The Item Die of the
report or book chapter improves by one die size. You are limited by the
number of specialty ranks you have in Culture (Scholarship).

TRANSLATE A PASSAGE (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You can translate one
page of text from one language you know to another language you know. If
you have a translating dictionary, you only have to know one of the
languages. For each additional success point and unit of writing
materials you spend, you can translate another page of text.

CRAFT BOOK CHAPTER (3 UNITS OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a book
chapter about a general topic. The book has a +1D6 Item Die that can be
used in Scholarship or Knowledge rolls related to the topic.

EUREKA!: During the course of your research, you’ve reached a new
conclusion that has eluded other scholars before you. The Item Die of
the report or chapter is maximized when used in a dice pool.

Strategy

You can create written materials to be used in military operations with
the Military (Strategy) specialty.

BASE TIME: Drafting military materials takes 1 hour.

SUPPLIES: Writing materials are required for crafting with Strategy.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on writing to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Military (Strategy).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to write your materials by taking a
Drop penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking
extra time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush
the writing.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Strategy (Crafting)   
  --------------------- ----------------------
  Base Time             1 hour
  Opposition            Automatic Success
  Supplies              writing materials
  Bonus Die             Extra time
  +                     Draft Battle Plans
  ++                    Improve Battle Plans
  ++                    Issue Orders
  +++++                 Forge Orders

DRAFT BATTLE PLANS (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a basic
plan of battle for a specific place and time. The plans give a +1D0
Bonus Die on Military (Strategy) rolls for that location, and are valid
for 1 week (6 days). The time can be extended by 1 week for each
additional success point you spend.

IMPROVE BATTLE PLANS (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): The Bonus Die of
your battle plans increased by one die size. You are limited by the
number of specialty ranks you have in Military (Strategy).

ISSUE ORDERS (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You issue orders to one
person under your command based on your battle plans. (Orders given to
officers apply to all troops under that officer’s command). If your
orders are followed, your subordinate gains a +1D6 Item Die on Military
(Strategy), Nature (Explore) and Nature (Prowl) rolls related to those
plans. For each additional success point and unit of writing materials,
you can issue orders to another subordinate. For each additional 2
success points you spend, the Item Die of your orders improves by one
die size, limited by your specialty ranks in Military (Strategy).

FORGE ORDERS (1 UNIT OF WRITING MATERIALS): You create a forgery of
military orders that appear to come from a specific commander. This can
include fake letters of promotion, forged military identification
papers, and legitimate-looking orders that will actually end in
disaster. When someone attempts to analyze these orders, the standard
opposition is Easy (3D6). The difficulty increases by one step for every
2 success points and 1 unit of writing materials you spend.

Treat

You can craft medicine and cures for diseases with the Medicine (Treat)
specialty.

BASE TIME: Crafting medicine takes 1 hour. Crafting a disease cure takes
1 day.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your alchemy tools or laboratory to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: medicine require alchemical ingredients; disease cures require
medicine.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Medicine (Treat).

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in Medicine (Treat).

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Treat (Crafting)   
  ------------------ ------------------------------------
  Base Time          1 hour or 1 day
  Opposition         Automatic Success
  Item Die           Alchemy tools or laboratory
  Supplies           medicine or alchemical ingredients
  Bonus Die          Extra Time
  +                  Craft medicine
  ++                 Craft Known Cure
  ++++               Reduce Material Cost
  +++++              Duplicate Cure
  ++++++             Eureka!

CRAFT MEDICINE (1 UNIT OF ALCHEMICAL INGREDIENTS): You create two units
of medicine for every 1 success point and 1 unit of alchemical
ingredients you spend.

CRAFT KNOWN CURE (2 UNITS OF MEDICINE): You create one dose of a cure
for a known disease. The cure is effective for 24 hours, although the
potency can be extended by another 24 hours for each success point you
spend. Each extra success point and unit of medicine you spend creates
another dose of the same cure.

DUPLICATE CURE (2 UNITS OF MEDICINE): You duplicate the curative
properties of a cure without knowing the exact treatment for it, as long
as you have a sample. You create one dose of the cure, and for every
extra success point and unit of medicine you create another dose. The
cure is effective for only 12 hours and cannot be extended.

EUREKA! (5 UNITS OF MEDICINE): You’ve invented a new cure for the
disease you’re treating. You craft one dose of the cure, and for every
extra success point and unit of medicine you create another one. The
cure is effective for 24 hours, although you can extend the potency by
another 24 hours for each success point you spend. From now on, you can
create this cure as a “known cure” as can anyone who you instruct.

Weave

You can craft articles of clothing, including charmwoven items.

BASE TIME: Crafting an article of clothing takes 1 hour.

ITEM DIE: Add the Item Die of your tailoring tools or workshop to your
dice pool.

SUPPLIES: Creating clothes requires fabric supplies.

EXTRA TIME: You can spend extra time on crafting to add a Bonus Die to
your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of ranks
in Magicks (Weave).

EXTRA SUPPLIES: You can use extra supplies while crafting to add a Bonus
Die to your dice pool. The size of that die is limited by your number of
ranks in the Specialty.

RUSHING: You can reduce the time to craft your creation by taking a Drop
penalty on your die roll. You can’t rush a job that you’re taking extra
time on. The size of the Drop penalty depends on how much you rush the
crafting.

OPPOSITION: Unless you are rushing, a crafting roll automatically
succeeds. The success points generated determine the quality of the
creation.

  Weave (Crafting)   
  ------------------ ------------------------------
  Base Time          1 hour
  Opposition         Automatic Success
  Item Die           Tailoring tools or workshop
  Supplies           Fabric
  Bonus Die          Extra time or extra supplies
  +                  Craft Article of Clothing
  ++                 Add Charm to Clothing
  ++                 Increase Charm
  ++++               Reduce Material Cost
  ++++++             Masterpiece!

CRAFT ARTICLE OF CLOTHING (1 UNIT OF FABRIC): You create a basic article
of clothing that is social rank Commoner (D0) or Soldier (D6). If the
social rank is Artisan (D8) or higher, you need to pay extra success
points to create it.** **If you spend one additional success point, you
can create an article of clothing that is social rank Artisan (D8) or
Noble (D10). If you have at least 4 ranks in Magicks (Weave), you can
spend one more success point to create an article of clothing that is
social rank Royal (D12).

ADD CHARM TO CLOTHING: You add a charm to the article you created, with
a Charm Die of +1D6. The item must be in accordance with the applicable
Laws of Fashion (see Chapter 9, “Specialized Gear”).

INCREASE CHARM (1 UNIT OF FABRIC): The Charm Die of the article of
clothing improves by one die size. You are limited by the number of
specialty ranks you have in Magicks (Weave).

REDUCE MATERIAL COST: You reduce the overall cost of this Crafting roll
by one unit of fabric.

MASTERPIECE!: You’ve created an amazing article of apparel that draws
everyone’s eyes. The article’s Charm Die is automatically maximized when
used in a dice pool.


Equipment

In this chapter, we’ll look at the mundane clothes, weapons, tools, and
other items that a cavalier might use during the course of her day.

Item Scale

Every item has a scale that describes the general size of the item:
pocket scale, handheld scale, portable scale, human scale, furniture
scale, room scale, and building scale. In general, it’s easy enough to
determine the scale of most items, but for some items a scale is
explicitly listed in the lists that follow.

The scale concept is used in the optional rules for Encumbrance, later
in this chapter, as well as for clockwork devices in Chapter 9,
“Specialty Equipment,” and animals in Chapter 20, “Opponents.”

Pocket Scale

A pocket-scale device is light, easily concealed, requires only one hand
to operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing
without attracting undue notice. Examples include small pistols or
knives, flasks of alchemical brews, and a pet mouse.

Weapons of this size are classified as Either Hand weapons.

Handheld Scale

A handheld item usually requires one hand to operate and can be carried
on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Most can’t be easily
concealed unless you’re willing to forego easy access. Examples include
most swords, tool kits, bucklers, and large hats.

When describing animals, such as cats or small dogs, handheld scale is
known as pet scale. Weapons of this size are classified as Main Hand
weapons.

Portable Scale

A portable-scale item is one which requires two hands to carry and
operate, or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Examples include
two-handed swords, muskets, and bar stools.

The equivalent scale for animals is companion scale. A portable-scale
weapon is classified a Both Hands weapon.

Human Scale

An object roughly the size of a person – such as a statue or a suit of
rigid armor – can’t be easily carried by a single person without
requiring her full attention. Other examples include work carts, heavy
chairs, and velocipedes.

Furniture Scale

Larger than a human but smaller than a room, a carriage-scale item is
around the size of a bed, a wardrobe dresser, or a small carriage. At
best, an adult human can drag a furniture-scale item around but can’t
pick it up. Other furniture-scale items are horses, rowboats, and
thrones.

In descriptions of animals, furniture scale is known as mount scale.

Room Scale

Room-scale items can be rooms themselves, the amount of furnishings it
takes to fill up a room, or an object of comparable size. In combat,
each room-scale item is usually its own Area.

Mammoth scale is the equivalent of room scale when describing animals.

Building Scale

Building-scale items include buildings, of course, but also large
vehicles such as sailing ships or airships. In combat situations, a
building-scale object is usually divided into multiple Areas.

When talking about animals this large, such as giant squids or great
whales, the term behemoth scale is used.

Optional Rule: Encumbrance

This is an optional rule that the MJ can use if it will enhance her
game. In most cases, the calculations are more effort than they’re worth
and rarely provide any actual change in the game. However, if the
players start carrying around dozens of heavy items, the MJ might decide
that this use can help bring her players’ gear into line with her
expectations for the game. _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ is a swashbuckling
action game, and not about lugging around heavy weights!

Carrying Limit

A human carrying a Person-sized object takes a Drop 2 penalty on attack
rolls (Dueling, Brawl, and Aim), and cannot move more than one area in a
given turn. Humans cannot usually move items of Carriage size or higher,
unless it’s got wheels or something similar.

_Example:_ You pick up an unconscious colleague and carry her over your
shoulders. That’s obviously a Person-sized object, so you get a Drop 2
penalty and can’t run.

Combining Encumbrance

Three items of a smaller size are equivalent to one item of larger size.
So three Portable items are as bulky and heavy as one Person-sized
object – meaning if you’re carrying a musket, a zweihander, and a pike
(all Portable-sized objects), you’ve got the equivalent of a
Person-sized object and take the Drop 2 penalty, plus you can’t run.

Three Pocket-sized items equal a Handheld object; three Handheld-sized
items equal a Portable object; and three Portable-sized items equal a
Person-sized object. You could carry eight Handheld objects – say, a
cutlass, a buckler, and a brace of six pistols tied together by rope –
and not be slowed down, because that only equals two Portable items,
which is less than a Person-sized object.

Worn Items

Items that are specifically designed to be worn – and which can’t be
removed easily during the middle of a fight (and sometimes, even after a
fight) – count as one size lower for purposes of encumbrance when worn.
A suit of armor is normally Person-sized, but if you’re wearing it, it
counts as Portable-sized. (If you’re trying to carry an empty suit of
armor, though, it counts as Person-sized.) A worn breastplate (Portable)
counts as a Handheld item.

Pocket-sized items which are worn don’t count at all for encumbrance
purposes, unless you’re wearing three of the same kind – for example, a
worn wrist holster (Pocket) or two doesn’t weigh you down at all. Three
worn wrist holsters, however, would equal a Pocket-sized objects – base
size of Pocket, stepped up to Handheld for three of them, then stepped
down again to Pocket size for being worn.

Clothing of any type never counts for calculating encumbrance – it’s all
considered Pocket size (regardless of actual size) and thus is not
included when worn unless you’re doing something silly like wearing
three different capes at the same time.

Other Things That Don’t Weigh Very Much

Medicine, alchemy supplies, draughts and unguents, poisons, and other
small consumables don’t count for encumbrance unless you’ve got 9 of
them, in which case they count as a Pocket-sized object. Ammunition and
powder for your guns, arrows for your crossbows and bows, and other
types of ammo don’t ever count; they’re included with the weapon itself
(especially as they’re not tracked in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_).

Other supplies (art supplies, blackpowder supplies, clockwork gears,
fabric, foodstuffs) count as one Pocket-size object for every three
units you carry. So if you’re carrying, say, 10 units of clockwork
gears, that counts as three Pocket-size objects, or 1 Handheld object.
Two or fewer units of these supplies don’t count for encumbrance
purposes.

Wealth

In _The Queen’s Cavaliers_, money is treated as an abstract resource
rather than counting the exact number of Crowns, Sols, and Lunes that
your character is carrying. Your character’s ability to purchase items
is represented by a composite Wealth pool, and goods or services are
rated by cost and availability.

Wealth Pools

A Wealth score for a player character is a pool based on the following
dice:

-   The character’s two Social Rank scores
-   The character’s Competency Die

A new Duelist/Charmweaver character would thus have a Wealth dice pool
consisting of 1D6 (Soldier social rank), 1D8 (Artisan social rank), and
1D6 (starting Competency die), for a total of 1D8+2D6.

Wealth pools can become depleted by making successful Wealth rolls
during the course of a game session, as described below. At the start of
each session, a character’s Wealth pool is restored to its original
value.

Purchase Costs and Availability

Each item or service that you can buy has a cost, as shown on the
equipment lists. For example, a dagger is 1D0, a leather jerkin is 1D6,
and an airship is 4D12.

The availability of the item is dependent upon where you are and how
common the item is, as determined by the MJ based on the following
table.

Availability

  Availability   Die   Skill Required
  -------------- ----- ----------------
  Very Common    D0    Apprentice
  Common         D6    Journeyman
  Uncommon       D8    Expert
  Rare           D10   Master
  Very Rare      D12   Grandmaster

There are no set values for availability, but as a general rule the
highest die in an item’s cost is often equal to its availability rating,
or the level of skill required to create the item, whichever is higher.

The MJ can change the availability based on the geographic location; for
example, if you are in Lutetia, it’s Very Common to find a sword, while
in the Provinces it might be Very Common to buy a draft horse.

The dice pool opposing a Wealth roll is equal to the cost plus the
availability. Buying a sword in Lutetia would be D6 (cost) plus D0
(availability), or 1D6. Buying an Airship in Lutetia is 4D12 (cost) plus
1D12 (availability), or 5D12, since airships are very rarely available
for purchase.

Making a Wealth Roll

A Wealth roll represents the character’s attempt to locate goods or
services, leverage her material assets and personal favors, and purchase
said item. The player makes a roll of her Wealth pool against the cost
and availability, rolled by the MJ.

If the MJ’s roll is higher, the character is unable to purchase the item
in question – her personal lines of credit are exhausted, she’s low on
cash, there’s not one available for the right price, or any other
explanation. This is an opportunity for the MJ and the player to
cooperatively introduce a plot element to describe why the purchase
didn’t go through.

In addition, on a failed Wealth roll, the character drops one die from
her Wealth pool. This is marked on the character sheet by a checkbox.
Dropped dice cannot be used again during the same game session, although
they are restored at the beginning of the next game session.

If the player wins the opposed Wealth roll, she still drops one die from
her Wealth pool to represent the expenditure of resources, and spends
her success points on the following success table:

  Wealth Rolls   
  -------------- -----------------------
  Opposition     Cost and availability
  +              Purchase Item
  ++++           No Drop

PURCHASE ITEM: You can purchase the item or service in question. If the
item has a B beside the cost, it can be purchased in bulk, and each
success point you spend gives you one more of the item; otherwise, you
can only purchase the item or service once.

NO DROP: You don’t drop a die from your Wealth pool because of this
roll.

Dropped Dice

Dropped dice are restored at the start of the next game session. You can
(and probably should) drop a D0 die if it is in your Wealth pool; it’s
always best to drop your lowest die rather your highest die.

If you get enough success points on your Wealth roll, you don’t have to
drop any dice.

You can’t choose to drop Barter or Reward dice when you make a Wealth
roll, as they are not a permanent part of your Wealth pool.

Buying in Bulk

Certain items in the equipment list can be purchased in bulk; these are
marked by a [B] after the cost. For those items, and only those items,
you can buy multiple quantities by expending additional success points.

If you are spending a Reward, you get a quantity of items equal to half
your Reward die size when buying items in bulk. For example, if you
spend a D8 reward on fabric (cost D6), you get 4 pieces of fabric.

Charmwoven Items

You purchase a Charmwoven item in the same way that you purchase
anything else – but the cost is equal to the base cost of the item plus
the Charm die. This is in addition to the availability, which in most
cases is equal to the Charm die as well.

For example, if you wish to purchase a cavalier hat with a D8 Charm for
Dueling (Riposte), the cost will be D6 for the hat, D8 for the Charm,
and D8 for finding an Expert charmweaver, for a total of 2D8+1D6 as the
opposition to your Wealth roll.

By comparison, an uncharmed cavalier hat would cost D6 plus D0
availability in Lutetia (they’re all the rage these days), for a total
of 1D6.

Cost D0

An item with a cost of D0 is not free; it still requires a successful
Wealth roll to purchase and thus a die dropped (or a D0 or higher Reward
to purchase without rolling).

Likewise, a D0 Reward actually is something, but it doesn’t do much
except let you purchase a single D0 item (such as a knife).

A D0 Barter die has no value, however, so you don’t need to bother with
those.

Barter Dice

When you sell items, you gain Barter dice equal to the cost (not the
availability) of the item. Barter dice are recorded on the character
sheet below the Wealth pool, and can be included in a Wealth roll
whenever you wish. However, after being successfully used once, Barter
dice are expended.

You can include as many Barter dice as you have in any given roll, or
you can save them as long as you wish.

On a failed Wealth roll, any Barter dice used are not expended, and can
be used again in the future.

For example, if you want to sell your riding horse (cost D8), you gain a
D8 Barter die. If you then turn around and buy a warhorse, you can
choose to add the D8 to your Wealth roll.

Rewards

A Reward is a more tangible, less abstract quantity of Wealth, usually
bequeathed by a non-player character. Such Rewards could include a grant
from the Queen, a bounty for capturing a wanted criminal, or a prize for
winning a tournament.

Each Reward has a die value associated with it, from D0 to D12. You can
use a Reward to automatically purchase, without making a Wealth roll,
any item or service which is equal to or less than the Reward’s die
value.

New characters begin the game with three Rewards, equal in value to the
dice in their Wealth pool. Additional Rewards should be granted by the
MJ. A typical good deed may net a Reward equal to the player characters’
Competency die, while capturing a fugitive could earn a Reward equaling
the criminal’s Competency die.

Gallinean Currency

The most common coinage used in Gallinea is the Sol, a silver coin
roughly analogous to a modern dollar. A Lune is a copper coin equal to
1/12 of a Sol, while a gold Crown is 12 Sols.

Crowns are stamped with a portrait of the current monarch. Sols have a
sun pattern, and Lunes show a crescent moon.

The approximate values of an item, Barter die, or Reward are shown on
the following table.

Gallinean Currency

   Die  Cost              Barter Die Value   Reward Value
  ----- ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
   D0   1-12 Lunes        1 Lune             12 Lunes (1 Sol)
   D6   1-6 Sols          1 Sol              6 Sols (½ Crown)
   D8   1-8 Crowns        1 Crown            8 Crowns
   D10  10-100 Crowns     10 Crowns          100 Crowns
   D12  100-1200 Crowns   100 Crowns         1200 Crowns

These numbers are just to facilitate roleplay; you don’t use the actual
values except for description. For example, the MJ might say, “She
plunks down a small sack of Crowns on the table” to represent a D8
reward, or state that an airship (cost 4D12) is worth nearly 5,000
Crowns.

Gallinea’s neighboring countries have their own currencies but they are
usually interchangeable with Gallinean coins as they’re based on the
ancient Qartan money system.

Weapons

While _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ is not entirely focused around combat,
it’s still a swashbuckling game – so swords, muskets, and cannons play a
role in the stories being told.

In game terms, there are three broad categories that weapons fall into:
dueling, aimed, and explosive.

DUELING WEAPON: A weapon that can be used in close-quarters combat with
one or more of the Dueling (Lunge), Dueling (Riposte), Dueling (Feint),
or Defense (Parry) specialties. Examples are swords, knives,
quarterstaves, and pikes.

AIMED WEAPON: A weapon that can be used at range with the Military (Aim)
specialty. These include crossbows, muskets, pistols, and some thrown
weapons.

EXPLOSIVE WEAPON: Unlike some aimed weapons which also use blackpowder,
such as flintlock pistols or muskets, aiming an explosive weapon isn’t
the problem. It’s preventing yourself from blowing up in the process. To
make an attack with explosives, you use the Science (Blackpowder)
specialty. This category includes cannons, grenades, and bombs.

Free Starting Weapon

When you create your character for _The Queen’s Cavaliers_, you get a
free weapon in addition to any granted by your classes and any
additional weapons you might also buy. If you don’t want a free weapon,
you can instead take a +1D6 Barter die.

You can pick from the following basic weapons:

-   Cutlass (Sword +1D8, Main Hand)
-   Dagger (Knife +1D6, Either Hand)
-   Flintlock Pistol (Pistol +1D6, Either Hand)
-   Rapier (Sword +1D8, Main Hand)
-   Sabre (Sword +1D6, Main Hand, Cavalry)
-   Smallsword (Sword +1D6, Either Hand)

Weapon Qualities

There are four qualities possessed by all weapons: the type of Weapon
Prowess needed to use it, the Weapon Die that can be added as an Item
Die to your dice pools, the number of Hands you need to use to attack
effectively with one, and the Specialties with which that weapon can be
used. Some weapons also possess Success Table Additions which give you
additional ways to spend success points when making certain kinds of
rolls with the weapon.

WEAPON PROWESS: Weapon Prowess is your knowledge of the basics of how to
attack and defend with that weapon. There are nine types of Weapon
Prowess: bow, cudgel, knife, musket, net, pistol, polearm, sword, and
whip. All player characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ automatically
have Knife Prowess.

WEAPON DIE: You can add the Weapon Die to a Dice Pool as an Item Die if
you have the appropriate prowess for the weapon. If you lack prowess in
a weapon, you can still use the weapon – you just don’t get to add the
Weapon Die to your pool.

HANDS: Some weapons can be used freely in either hand, others require
two hands to use, and some are just intended for main-hand use. These
are represented by the following weapon qualities:

-   MAIN HAND: This weapon can be used in one hand. You can have another
    weapon in your other hand, but it must be usable in Either Hand.
-   EITHER HAND: This weapon also requires only one hand to use, but
    unlike a Main Hand weapon, you can wield one in each hand (known as
    “dual wielding”) or as a secondary weapon with a Main Hand weapon in
    your primary hand.
-   BOTH HANDS: You need both hands to use this weapon.

SCALE: The scale of a weapon depends on the number of hands required to
use it. Unless stated otherwise, Main Hand weapons are considered
handheld scale, Either Hand weapons are pocket scale, and Both Hand
weapons are portable scale.

SPECIALTIES: These qualities list the specific specialties that can be
used with that weapon. If a specialty isn’t listed, it’s up to the MJ
whether it’s possible to use the weapon that way, and what kind of Drop
penalty you’ll receive; for example, using Parry with a musket or Aim
with a rapier could have pretty heavy penalties – Drop 2 for the musket,
Drop 4 for the rapier.

-   AIM: Any attack with handheld weapons made at range uses the Aim
    specialty, from throwing a knife to firing a musket. If you have
    prowess in the weapon you’re using, you can add its Weapon Die to
    your Aim roll as an Item Die.
-   BLOCK: Defense (Block) allows the use of armor and general toughness
    to throw off the effects of an attack. It can be used to negate
    attacks from either Dueling or Aimed weapons. You add your armor’s
    Armor Die to your Block roll as an Item Die if you have Armor
    Prowess in that item.
-   BRAWL: Only a few Dueling weapons can be used as part of a Military
    (Brawl) attack or defense; Brawl usually doesn’t use an Item Die of
    any kind. Brawl can be used to inflict Yield, to disarm or knock
    down an opponent, or to defend against a Brawl attack.
-   FEINT: The primary use of Dueling (Feint) is to build Advantage
    during a fight through tricky maneuvering or a false attack to draw
    the your opponent off-guard. It can also inflict Yield or trigger a
    Riposte. If you have prowess in the weapon you’re using, you can add
    its Weapon Die to your Riposte roll as an Item Die, although you can
    perform a Feint without a weapon also.
-   LUNGE: A Lunge is a straightforward attack against an opponent using
    a Dueling weapon, usually by stabbing, chopping, slashing, or
    bashing. It’s the best way to inflict either Yield or Wounds on your
    target. If you have prowess in the weapon you’re using, add its
    Weapon Die to your Lunge roll as an Item Die.
-   PARRY: This specialty of the Defense skill can be used to negate
    incoming attacks from Dueling weapons, and if possible, trigger a
    Riposte. You need to have a weapon, improvised or otherwise, in your
    hand to attempt a Parry. If you have prowess in that weapon, add its
    Weapon Die to your Parry roll as an Item Die.
-   RIPOSTE: Dueling (Riposte) is a triggered Dueling attack that you
    can use by spending success points from another specialty – either
    Defense (Parry) or Dueling (Feint). A successful Riposte can inflict
    Yield or Wounds, or decrease your opponent’s Advantage. The Defense
    (Parry) specialty cannot be used to defend against a Riposte. If you
    have prowess in the weapon you’re using, you can add its Weapon Die
    to your Riposte roll as an Item Die.

SUCCESS TABLE ADDITIONS: Some weapons have additions to the success
tables for specific specialties, such as Knockdown or additional damage.
These are represented by the + notation for success points, such as
Lunge (+++: Unhorse).

Dueling Weapons

Dueling weapons are, by definition, weapons that can be used with the
Dueling skill and its specialties – Lunge, Riposte, Feint, and Defense
(Parry). Not all weapons can be used with all specialties, however.

DUELING WEAPON PROWESS: The types of Weapon Prowess used with dueling
weapons are:

-   CUDGEL PROWESS: Any Dueling weapon used to bludgeon someone is a
    cudgel.
-   KNIFE PROWESS: In addition to serving as Dueling weapons, you can
    also throw some knives with the Aim specialty.
-   NET PROWESS: A net can be used as a Dueling weapon, although it’s
    much more common to see this in Ekalia than in Gallinea.
-   POLEARM PROWESS: A polearm is any long-hafted Dueling weapon,
    typically (but not always) with the Reach quality.
-   SWORD PROWESS: A Dueling weapon with a blade and a hilt. The pointy
    end goes in the other guy.
-   WHIP PROWESS: Whips are usually used in one hand, and most have
    Reach.

DUELING WEAPON QUALITIES: In addition to the qualities common to all
weapons, dueling weapons could have two additional qualities.

-   CAVALRY: A dueling weapon with the Cavalry quality must be used with
    your Main Hand. If you are using this weapon while riding a mount,
    you can substitute the mount’s Item Die for your Weapon Die against
    an unmounted opponent.
-   REACH: A dueling weapon with Reach can be used to attack into an
    adjacent area as well as your own.

SUCCESS TABLE ADDITIONS FOR DUELING WEAPONS: Some dueling weapons have
additions to the success tables for specific specialties, such as
Knockdown or additional damage. These are represented by the + notation
for success points after the specialty name, such as Lunge (+++:
Unhorse). On a success with a weapon possessing that quality, you could
spend 3 success points to knock your target off her horse.

-   BREAK WEAPON: You snap your target’s blade or hilt. You can only do
    this if your target attempts to Parry your attack and fails, or if
    you are performing a Parry yourself. A broken weapon is useless
    except as an improvised weapon.
-   DISARM: You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using to
    attack you or the weapon she’s using to Parry your attack. (This
    can’t be used when defending against a Brawl attack.) You get to
    choose if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an
    adjacent Area, or in your hand if you have one free.
-   EXECUTE A RIPOSTE: You can make a Riposte attack. This is the only
    way to use the Riposte specialty; it has to follow a successful use
    of a Specialty or weapon with this effect on its Success Table.
-   GRAB: You can snag an item worn by your target as long as you can
    see it, the item is Handheld size or smaller, and it’s not being
    held by your opponent. You get to choose if the item ends up on the
    ground in your Area, or in your hand if you have one free.
-   INFLICT 1 WOUND: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more
    Wounds than her Wound Limit, she falls unconscious and is dying.
    Weapons with this quality allow you to inflict Wounds for a lower
    cost than usual.
-   INFLICT 2 WOUNDS: Your opponent takes two Wounds. If she takes more
    Wounds than her Wound Limit, she falls unconscious and is dying.
    Weapons with this quality allow you to inflict Wounds for a lower
    cost than usual.
-   KNOCKDOWN: Your target is knocked prone, either in your Area or in
    an adjacent Area. Knocking an opponent into an adjacent Area can
    result in them falling or otherwise taking environmental damage.
    Prone characters suffer a Drop 1 penalty on attack and defense
    rolls, and cannot Move until they stand up; standing up is a Drop 1
    combined action.
-   RESTRAIN: You successfully catch your opponent with your weapon,
    holding them in place. A combatant who is held suffers a Drop 1
    penalty on attack and defense rolls; for every two additional
    Success Points you spend, you can increase the Drop penalty by 1, to
    a maximum of Drop 4. Your opponent can escape by making a simple
    check against Standard Opposition, usually using Brawl or a weapon
    attack. On a success, your opponent can break your weapon, let it
    fall in their Area, or grab it themselves.
-   UNHORSE: If your target is riding a mount, they fall off that mount
    and end up prone. Unhorsing an opponent can result in them falling
    or otherwise taking environmental damage. In addition, your mount
    can make a trample attack right now for free, if it has that
    quality. Prone characters suffer a Drop 1 penalty on attack and
    defense rolls, and cannot Move until they stand up. Standing up is a
    Drop 1 combined action, and remounting is an additional Drop 3
    penalty.

Availability of Dueling Weapons

As stated in Chapter 7: Wealth, to purchase any item you must roll
against a pool consisting of that item’s availability and its cost.

Common dueling weapons are those which aren’t hard at all to find any
settlement of decent size, and even in some smaller towns. Those are
listed in the following tables.

The availability of common weapons is almost always 1D0 in settlements
of any size. The exceptions are cutlass, rapier, sabre, and smallsword –
the common swords – in a small rural settlement. In such situations, the
availability increases to 1D6.

Common Dueling Weapons

  Weapon          Cost  Hands            Weapon Die    Specialties
  -------------- ------ ---------------- ------------- -------------------------------------
  Buckler          D6   Either           Shield +1D8   Parry, Block
  Club             D0   Main             Cudgel +1D6   Lunge
  Cutlass          D6   Main             Sword +1D8    Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint
  Dagger           D6   Either           Knife +1D6    Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint, Aim
  Quarterstaff     D0   Both             Cudgel +1D6   Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint, Brawl
  Rapier           D6   Main             Sword +1D8    Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint
  Sabre            D6   Main (Cavalry)   Sword +1D6    Parry, Lunge, Feint
  Smallsword       D6   Either           Sword +1D6    Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint

-   BUCKLER: A buckler is a small shield that can be strapped to your
    forearm, usually on your non-dominant hand. You can hold an item in
    that hand but trying to attack with that hand while wearing a
    buckler gives you a Drop 2 penalty on rolls using either the buckler
    or that weapon.
-   CLUB: A standard club is simply a piece of wood or metal that you
    can swing at someone. It’s not very sophisticated, but then again,
    you can likely pick one up wherever you are at any given time.
-   CUTLASS: The favored weapon of buccaneers, pirates, and other
    sailors.
-   DAGGER: A dagger is a large knife that can also be thrown using the
    Aim specialty.
-   QUARTERSTAFF: A medium-sized pole wielded in both hands that can
    also be used in a Brawl dice pool as well.
-   RAPIER: The most common type of Sword in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ is
    a sharp, pointy weapon that can be used for all types of fencing.
-   SABRE: A lighter and faster weapon, the sabre is designed to be used
    from horseback although it functions equally well when dismounted.
-   SMALLSWORD: Effectively a smaller, lighter version of a rapier, a
    smallsword can be used in the same way – or you could dual-wield two
    of them if you want.

Uncommon dueling weapons have an availability of 1D0 in a capital city,
1D6 in any other city, and 1D8 in villages and other rural areas. The
one exception is that a bullwhip always has an availability of 1D0.

Uncommon Dueling Weapons

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Weapon               Cost  Hands       Weapon    Specialties
                                         Die       
  ------------------- ------ ----------- --------- -----------------------------------------
  Backsword             D6   Main        Sword     Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint
                                         +1D8      

  Bayonet               D6   --          Polearm   Lunge, Feint
                                         +1D6      

  Bullwhip              D0   Main        Whip +1D6 Riposte, Feint (+++: Knockdown, +++++:
                             (Reach)               Grab)

  Cat-O’-Nine-Tails     D6   Main        Whip +1D8 Riposte, Feint (+++: Knockdown)

  Glaive                D8   Both        Polearm   Parry, Lunge, Feint
                             (Reach)     +1D10     

  Halberd               D8   Both        Polearm   Lunge (+++: Unhorse), Feint
                             (Reach)     +1D10     

  Hooked Net            D0   Either      Net +1D6  Feint (++++: Knockdown)
                             (Reach)               

  Lance                 D6   Main        Polearm   Lunge (+++: Unhorse)
                             (Cavalry)   +1D10     

  Longsword             D8   Main or     Sword     Parry, Lunge, Riposte, Feint
                             Both        +1D8      

  Mace                  D8   Main        Cudgel    Parry, Lunge
                                         +1D8      

  Main Gauche           D6   Either      Knife     Parry (+: Execute a Riposte), Riposte (+:
                                         +1D6      Decrease Advantage), Feint

  Pike                  D8   Both        Polearm   Lunge
                             (Reach)     +1D12     

  Pollaxe               D8   Both        Polearm   Parry, Lunge, Feint
                             (Reach)     +1D8      

  Scourge               D6   Main        Whip +1D6 Riposte, Feint (++++: Inflict 1 Wound)
                             (Reach)               

  Spear                 D6   Main        Polearm   Lunge, Feint, Aim
                                         +1D6      

  Swordbreaker          D6   Either      Knife     Parry (+++++: Break Weapon), Riposte,
                                         +1D6      Feint

  Trident Dagger        D6   Either      Knife     Parry (++++: Disarm), Feint
                                         +1D6      

  Truncheon             D6   Main        Cudgel    Parry, Lunge, Brawl
                                         +1D6      

  Weighted Net          D6   Main        Net +1D6  Feint (+++: Restrain)
                             (Reach)               
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   BACKSWORD: _description needed_
-   BAYONET: A bayonet is attached to the barrel of a musket and can be
    used as a Dueling weapon without having to change weapons.
-   BULLWHIP: The bullwhip also can be used as a +1D6 Item Die for
    Husbandry when trying to control domesticated animals or drive off
    wild animals.
-   CAT-O’-NINE-TAILS: _description needed_
-   GLAIVE: _description needed_
-   HALBERD: _description needed_
-   HOOKED NET: _description needed_
-   LANCE: _description needed_
-   LONGSWORD: When used with two hands, the Weapon Die of a longsword
    increases to +1D10.
-   MAIN GAUCHE: _description needed_
-   PIKE: _description needed_
-   POLLAXE: _description needed_
-   SCOURGE: _description needed_
-   SPEAR: _description needed_
-   SWORDBREAKER: _description needed_
-   TRIDENT DAGGER: _description needed_
-   TRUNCHEON: _description needed_
-   WEIGHTED NET: _description needed_

Foreign Weapons

In addition to the common and uncommon dueling weapons listed in the
previous tables and aimed weapons later in this chapter, the nations
that comprise Elara and Ifran have their own weapons as well. These
national weapons are described in chapters 14 and 15, and include:

-   ALBIA: claymore, dirk, longbow, tuck
-   EKALIA: brandestoc, cinquedea, hook prothesis
-   NORTHERN IFRAN: horsebow, jambiya, shamshir
-   ONDALA: espada ropera, montante
-   TALANIA: koncerz, szabla
-   VARENDIA: colichedemarde, katzbalger, zweihander

The availability of foreign dueling weapons is the same as that of
uncommon weapons – 1D0 in a capital city, 1D6 in any other city, and 1D8
in villages – at least, when you’re in that foreign country.

For neighboring countries, the availability of foreign dueling weapons
is 1D6 in a capital city, 1D8 in any other city, and 1D12 in villages.
In far-distant countries, the availability increases to 1D8 in a capital
city, 1D12 in any other city, and unavailable in smaller settlements.

Aimed Weapons

An Aimed weapon is one that can be used with the Military (Aim)
specialty. Larger ranged weapons are usually explosive weapons and use
the Science (Blackpowder) specialty for attacks.

AIMED WEAPON PROWESS: There are five types of weapon prowess that are
used with Aimed weapons. You can add the weapon’s Item Die to the dice
pool when making an attack roll with Aim if you have the appropriate
weapon prowess.

-   BOW PROWESS: Bows, including crossbows, use the Aim specialty to
    attack, and fire arrows or bolts.
-   KNIFE PROWESS: In addition to serving as Dueling weapons, you can
    also throw some knives with the Aim specialty.
-   MUSKET PROWESS: Muskets are an Aimed weapon with longer range than
    pistols, usually doing more damage and taking longer to reload.
-   PISTOL PROWESS: An Aimed pistol can be fired with one hand.
-   POLEARM PROWESS: Apart from their use as dueling weapons, some
    polearms – namely, spears – can be thrown with the Aim skill.

Aimed Weapon Qualities: In addition to the qualities common to all
weapons, there are five that apply to Aimed weapons: the time needed to
reload, and the effectiveness of the weapon at close, short, medium, and
long ranges.

-   RELOAD: For Aimed weapons that require ammunition, the Reload
    quality indicates what kind of Drop penalty is imposed when
    combining the Reload action with another action. Most muskets have a
    Reload value of Drop 3, and pistols of Drop 2.
-   CLOSE Range: The Close Range quality is the Drop penalty imposed
    when firing an Aimed weapon at a target within your own area. Larger
    weapons such as bows or muskets tend to have a Drop penalty at Close
    Range.
-   SHORT Range: A target that is one or two areas away is at Short
    Range. With very few exceptions, nearly all Aimed weapons have no
    Drop penalty at Short Range.
-   MEDIUM Range: Medium Range is three or four areas. Most Aimed
    weapons have a Drop penalty at Medium Range. If a weapon doesn’t
    have a listed Medium Range, it can’t be used to effectively attack
    at that distance.
-   LONG RANGE: At five or more areas distant, a target is at Long
    Range. All Aimed weapons that can be used at this distance have at
    least a Drop 1 penalty. If there is no Long Range listed for a
    weapon, it can’t be used to attack at Long Range.

Maximum Range?

The tables below don’t specify a maximum distance for long range. That’s
because areas are an abstract representation of distance, not exact
measurements. Under ideal conditions, a weapon that has the long range
quality could reach 10 or more areas away, depending on how the areas
are set up for that encounter; in a crowded city street, the effective
range will be much lower.

Ultimately it’s up to the MJ to decide what the maximum effective range
is for any weapon used at extreme long range, although usually not more
than 10 areas.

Aimed Weapons

  Weapon              Cost  Hands            Weapon Die     Reload   Close    Short    Medium   Long
  ------------------ ------ ---------------- -------------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
  Arbalest            D10   Both             Bow +1D10      Drop 4   Drop 2   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 2
  Arquebus             D6   Both             Musket +1D8    Drop 3   Drop 1   Drop 0   Drop 1   Drop 2
  Blunderbuss          D8   Both             Musket +1D10   Drop 2   Drop 0   Drop 1   Drop 2   --
  Caliver              D8   Both             Musket +1D8    Drop 2   Drop 1   Drop 0   Drop 1   Drop 2
  Composite Bow        D8   Both             Bow +1D8       Drop 0   Drop 1   Drop 0   Drop 1   Drop 2
  Crossbow             D8   Both             Bow +1D8       Drop 2   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 2
  Double Musket       D10   Both             Musket +1D8    Drop 4   Drop 2   Drop 0   Drop 2   --
  Double Pistol        D8   Either           Pistol +1D6    Drop 4   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 2   --
  Dragon               D6   Main (Cavalry)   Pistol +1D8    Drop 2   Drop 0   Drop 1   --       --
  Flintlock Musket     D8   Both             Musket +1D10   Drop 3   Drop 1   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 2
  Flintlock Pistol     D6   Either           Pistol +1D6    Drop 2   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 2   --
  Hunting Bow          D6   Both             Bow +1D6       Drop 0   Drop 1   Drop 0   Drop 1   Drop 2
  Rifled Musket        D8   Both             Musket +1D10   Drop 4   Drop 1   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 1
  Thrown Dagger        D0   Either           Knife +1D6     --       Drop 0   Drop 0   --       --
  Thrown Spear         D6   Main             Polearm +1D6   --       Drop 1   Drop 0   Drop 1   --

-   ARBALEST: Also known as a heavy crossbow, the arbalest is harder to
    use than a common crossbow but packs a larger punch.
-   ARQUEBUS: A smaller and lighter musket with shorter range and less
    firepower.
-   BLUNDERBUSS: The flared barrel of this musket makes it easier to
    reload, but also reduces its effective range.
-   CALIVER: Another type of musket that can reload faster without the
    reduced range of the blunderbuss, but with a smaller Weapon Die.
-   COMPOSITE BOW: A heavier bow with longer effective range and pull.
-   CROSSBOW: The crossbow uses stored mechanical power to fire bolts,
    instead of relying upon personal muscle power as a normal bow does.
-   DOUBLE MUSKET: The primary advantage of this double-barreled musket
    is the ability to fire twice, once per barrel, without reloading. If
    you choose to fire both barrels in the same shot, the Weapon Die
    increases to 1D12, but you take a Drop 1 penalty because it’s harder
    to aim. You can reload just one barrel of a double musket with a
    Drop 3 action.
-   DOUBLE PISTOL: Like the double musket, the double pistol allows one
    shot per barrel without having to reload. If you choose to fire both
    barrels in the same shot, the Weapon Die increases to 1D8, but you
    take a Drop 1 penalty because it’s harder to aim. You can reload
    just one barrel of a double pistol with a Drop 2 action.
-   DRAGON: This heavier version of a pistol is favored by cavalry –
    especially Dragoons, who take their name from the use of this large
    pistol.
-   FLINTLOCK MUSKET: This is a standard musket used by infantry
    throughout Elara.
-   FLINTLOCK PISTOL: A single-barrel pistol found all over Elara and
    Ifran.
-   HUNTING BOW: This standard bow, also called a shortbow or flatbow,
    has been used for millennia in pretty much every nation.
-   RIFLED MUSKET: With a rifled barrel to provide better accuracy at
    long range, this musket is the favored weapon of snipers.
-   THROWN DAGGER: A dagger doesn’t have be reloaded, but you take a
    Drop 1 penalty to draw it as you would with any other weapon – and
    once it’s thrown, you don’t have it any more.
-   THROWN SPEAR: Like a dagger, a thrown spear must be drawn first but
    doesn’t require ammunition.

Ammunition

Firing a musket or pistol uses a small amount of blackpowder and a
bullet, while a bow requires an arrow. However, in the _The Queen’s
Cavaliers_, strict tracking of ammunition and powder doesn’t contribute
to the swashbuckling adventure style of the genre. If you have an Aimed
weapon that has a Reload value, you’re assumed to have enough powder,
bullets, or arrows to fire your weapon and reload it as many times as
necessary. This applies even if you use someone else’s weapon, or a
weapon you just picked up – you just don’t track ammo for Aimed weapons
in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_. Except, of course, for explosive weapons.

Explosive Weapons

Unlike conventional weapons, which use Dueling or Military (Aim) rolls
for attack, explosive weapons affect an entire area and inflict damage
on every creature, object, or other target within that area.

-   BASE DAMAGE: _description needed_
-   YIELD: _description needed_
-   SPECIAL: _description needed_
-   INFLICT 1 YIELD: _description needed_
-   INFLICT 2 WOUNDS: _description needed_
-   ADD 1 AREA: _description needed_
-   INCREASE RADIUS: _description needed_
-   RADIUS: _description needed_
-   MAXIMUM RANGE: _description needed_
-   NAVAL AREAS: _description needed_
-   SUPPLIES: _description needed_

Grenades

  Weapon                 Cost  Base Damage    Yield  Special
  --------------------- ------ ------------- ------- -----------------------
  Grenade                1D6   1D6 Wounds      x2    --
  Grenade, alchemical    2D6   1 Wound         x4    +: Inflict 1 Yield
  Grenade, canister      2D6   1D6 Wounds      x2    +++: Inflict 2 Wounds
  Grenade, smoke         2D6   --              x2    ++: Add 1 Area
  Grenade, thunder       1D6   1 Wound         x3    ++: Add 1 Area
  Grenade, wildfire      2D6   1D6 Wounds      x2    +: Add 1 Area

Grenade Attacks

  Delivery Mechanism    Cost   Hands  Weapon Die     Reload   Close    Short    Medium   Long
  -------------------- ------ ------- -------------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
  Thrown                 --    Main   Grenade +1D6   --       Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 2   --
  Mortar, hand          1D8    Both   Cannon +1D10   Drop 2   Drop 2   Drop 0   Drop 0   Drop 2
  Arrow, fired           --    Both   Bow +1D6       Drop 4   Drop 3   Drop 1   Drop 3   Drop 3

Placed Bombs

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Bomb Type     Cost  Scale         Item Die      Base      Yield  Radius Steps   Special
                                                  Damage                          
  ------------ ------ ------------- ------------- -------- ------- -------------- --------------
  Bomb,         4D8   Carried       Blackpowder   1D6        x4    Close,         +: Inflict 1
  alchemical                        +1D6          Wounds           Adjacent,      Yield
                                                                   Short          

  Bomb,         3D8   Carried       Blackpowder   1D8        x2    Adjacent,      +++: Inflict 2
  canister                          +1D8          Wounds           Short, Medium  Wounds

  Bomb, heavy   3D8   Human-Scale   Blackpowder   2D6        x2    Medium, Long   --
                                    +1D12         Wounds                          

  Bomb, mining  2D6   Carried       Blackpowder   1D6        x2    Adjacent,      --
                                    +1D10         Wounds           Close          

  Bomb,          --   Pocket        Blackpowder   1 Wound    x2    Close          --
  powderhorn                        +1D0                                          

  Bomb,         1D6   Handheld      Blackpowder   1D6        x2    Close,         --
  powderkeg                         +1D0          Wounds           Adjacent       

  Bomb, smoke   2D6   Carried       Blackpowder   --         x3    Short, Medium  --
                                    +1D6                                          

  Bomb,         2D8   Human-Scale   Blackpowder   1D8        x2    Short, Medium, --
  structure                         +1D8          Wounds           Long           

  Bomb,         3D6   Carried       Blackpowder   1D6        x3    Close,         --
  thunder                           +1D8          Wounds           Adjacent,      
                                                                   Short          

  Bomb,         3D8   Carried       Blackpowder   1D10       x2    Adjacent,      ++: Step-Up
  wildfire                          +1D6          Wounds           Short, Medium  Radius
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Artillery

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Weapon            Cost  Scale         Weapon   Base     Supplies   Close   Short   Medium   Long   Maximum
                                        Die      Damage                                              Range
  ---------------- ------ ------------- -------- -------- ---------- ------- ------- -------- ------ ---------
  Basilic           3D12  Room          Cannon   1D10     2 units    Drop 0  Drop 0  Drop 1   Drop 1 12 Naval
                                        +1D12    Wounds                                              Areas

  Couleuvrine       5D10  Room          Cannon   1D10     2 units    Drop 0  Drop 0  Drop 0   Drop 2 10 Naval
                                        +1D10    Wounds                                              Areas

  Couleuvrine,      4D12  Room          Cannon   1D12     4 units    Drop 0  Drop 0  Drop 1   Drop 2 8 Naval
  grande                                +1D12    Wounds                                              Areas

  Couleuvrine,      4D10  Furniture     Cannon   1D8      2 units    Drop 0  Drop 1  Drop 0   Drop 2 10 Naval
  moyenne                               +1D10    Wounds                                              Areas

  Falconet          3D8   Human-Scale   Cannon   1D6      1 unit     Drop 0  Drop 0  Drop 2   Drop 2 6 Naval
                                        +1D6     Wounds                                              Areas

  Mortar, heavy     4D10  Room          Cannon   1D8      2 units    Drop 2  Drop 0  Drop 0   --     4 Naval
                                        +1D10    Wounds                                              Areas

  Rabinet           2D8   Human-Scale   Cannon   1 Wound  --         Drop 0  Drop 2  Drop 2   --     4 Naval
                                        +1D6                                                         Areas

  Vouivre-mignon    3D10  Furniture     Cannon   1D8      1 unit     Drop 0  Drop 0  Drop 1   Drop 2 6 Naval
                                        +1D8     Wounds                                              Areas
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cannon Shot

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Projectile Type     Cost  Extra      Yield  Radius Steps       Special
                            Damage                               
  ------------------ ------ --------- ------- ------------------ -----------------
  Cannon shot,        1D10  +1 Wound    x3    Close, Adjacent,   +: Inflict 1
  alchemical                                  Short              Yield

  Cannon shot,        1D10  +1D8        x2    Adjacent, Short,   +++: Inflict 2
  canister                  Wounds            Medium             Wounds

  Cannon shot,        1D8   +1D6        x2    Adjacent, Short    --
  blackpowder               Wounds                               

  Cannon shot, chain  1D8   +1D6        x3    Adjacent, Short    +: Inflict 1
                            Wounds                               Yield

  Cannon shot, round  2D6   +1D6        x2    Close              --

  Cannon shot, smoke  1D8   --          x3    Adjacent, Short,   ++: Step-Up
                                              Medium             Radius

  Cannon shot,        2D6   +1 Wound    x3    Adjacent, Short,   --
  thunder                                     Medium             

  Cannon shot,        1D10  +1D8        x2    Adjacent, Short,   ++: Step-Up
  wildfire                                    Medium             Radius
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Armor

Armor is any kind of clothing or shield used to protect the wearer from
attacks. Unlike normal clothing, most types of armor can’t be enchanted
by charmweaving. Armor provides an item die, also known as an Armor Die,
that can be used on Block rolls. As with all other item dice, you can’t
include more than one Armor Die in any dice pools.

There are three types of armor: Flexible, Rigid, and Shield. Each type
has its own associated armor prowess; if you wear armor of that type but
lack the appropriate prowess, you take a Drop 2 penalty on all combat
rolls (Defense, Dueling, Brawl, Aim).

FLEXIBLE ARMOR: This type of armor is usually lighter and more
comfortable to wear, although it may not fully protect the wearer. If
you are wearing flexible armor, you can’t wear an additional article of
clothing on your torso (although all armor includes sufficient
undergarments for the armor to be worn).

RIGID ARMOR: Solid plates of steel or iron provide the defensive value
of a suit of rigid armor. Like flexible armor, you can wear either armor
or torso attire, but not both.

SHIELDS: A shield is carried in one hand and can be used for both Block
and Parry rolls. You can’t include more than one Armor Die in any dice
pool, so you can’t combine the Armor Dice of a shield and armor.

The following table lists the types of armor commonly found in Gallinea;
each of these would have a +1D0 Availability Die in major cities, and
+1D6 elsewhere.

Common Armor

  Armor Type           Cost   Prowess   Item Die
  ------------------- ------ ---------- -------------------
  Buckler              1D6     Shield   Block, Parry +1D8
  Leather jerkin       1D6    Flexible  Block +1D6
  Steel breastplate    1D8     Rigid    Block +1D10

-   BUCKLER: A buckler is a type of small shield commonly used in
    dueling, usually paired with a rapier or other sword. They’re good
    at deflecting blows as well as setting up an opponent for a riposte.
-   LEATHER JERKIN: One of the most commonly worn armors, leather
    jerkins are simply leather vests or jackets reinforced with cuir
    bouilli shoulders and chest plates. While some can be decorated with
    artistic designs (for twice the price), the leather material can’t
    support the enchantments needed for charmweaving.
-   STEEL BREASTPLATE: A hard, steel breastplate, also known as a
    cuirass, protects the vital organs of its wearer, with the exception
    of the head. As with most armor, you can’t wear both a breastplate
    and an article of torso clothing, and the armor doesn’t support
    charmweaving.

Some less common armors are shown below. Each has an Availability Die in
a city that equals its cost, and one or more steps higher in smaller
towns.

Uncommon Armor

  Armor Type        Cost   Prowess   Item Die
  ---------------- ------ ---------- --------------------
  Buff coat         1D10   Flexible  Block +1D8
  Gambeson          1D8    Flexible  Block +1D6
  Kite shield       1D8     Shield   Block, Parry +1D10
  Maille hauberk    1D8    Flexible  Block +1D8
  Morion            1D6     Rigid    Block +1D6
  Parade armor      1D12    Rigid    Block +1D8
  Plate armor       1D10    Rigid    Block +1D12
  Valmain-rivet     1D6     Rigid    Block +1D8

-   BUFF COAT: Essentially a longer, reinforced gambeson, buff coats are
    favored by military officers. As with gambesons, they have
    charmwoven enchants; they are Soldier (1D6) social rank, can take
    Military (Brawl, Aim, or Strategy) charms, and are available in the
    full range of colors used in charmweaving. (See Chapter 9,
    “Specialty Equipment,” for further details on charmweaving.)
-   GAMBESON: Thick cloth padding makes these jerkins equal to leather
    in protective value, but the slightly longer construction time means
    they see less use. However, they can have charmwoven enchants added.
    Gambesons are considered to be Soldier (1D6) social rank, can have
    Defense (Block, Parry, or Dodge) charms added, and are only
    available in neutral colors. (See Chapter 9, “Specialty Equipment,”
    for further details on charmweaving.)
-   KITE SHIELD: Also known as a heater shield, this is larger than a
    buckler. The size prevents you from effectively using any Main Hand
    weapon at the same time as the shield.
-   MAILLE HAUBERK: This is a jacket or vest made of chainmail. The
    protective benefits in modern Gallinea are outweighed by the time –
    and thus the cost – necessary to produce it.
-   MORION: This is an open-faced, steel helmet shaped somewhat like a
    hat with a ridge down the middle. Morions are favored by guards and
    infantry. While it gives minimal protection when used alone, it
    grants a +1D6 Bonus Die to Block rolls if you’re wearing a steel
    breastplate. You can’t wear an article of head attire while wearing
    a morion.
-   PARADE ARMOR: These are highly decorative suits of plate armor, each
    one individually made for its wearer. (They’re only available in
    major cities, and even then usually have a +1D12 Availability Die.)
    Like other suits of plate armor, the wearer takes a Drop 2 penalty
    on Defense (Dodge), Dueling (Feint), and Nature (Prowl) rolls when
    parade armor is worn.

    While the actual protective value of parade armor is less than a
    suit of plate armor, they are the only type of rigid armor that can
    take charms. Parade armor is Noble (1D10) social rank and can be
    made in any color. The helmet, breastplate, gauntlets, and boots can
    each have individual charms. See Chapter 9, “Specialty Equipment,”
    for more information on charmweaving.

    Parade armor helmet charms can be Culture (Arts, Etiquette,
    Scholarship) or Observation (Perceive, Intuition, Deduce);
    breastplate charms can be Defense (Block, Parry, Dodge) or
    Interaction (Inspire, Negotiate, Deceive); gauntlet charms can be
    Military (Brawl, Aim, Strategy) or Streetwise (Banter, Carouse,
    Larceny); and boot charms can be Nature (Explore, Husbandry, Prowl)
    or Dueling (Lunge, Parry, Riposte). The entire suit of parade armor
    must be worn or none of the charms are active.
-   PLATE ARMOR: The knights of Varendia are famous for their heavy
    plate armor, which does provide superior protective ability albeit
    at the expense of mobility. While you are wearing plate armor, you
    take a Drop 2 penalty on Dodge, Feint, and Prowl rolls. In addition,
    you can’t wear any additional articles of clothing save for shoulder
    items such as cloaks or tabards.
-   VALMAIN-RIVET: Originally created in Varendia (“valmain” references
    an older Albian term meaning “Varendish”), these are cheap, easily
    constructed suits of partial plate armor used for equipping large
    armies. There’s nothing glamorous about them; they’re simply
    functional. You can’t wear torso, head, or arm clothing items while
    wearing valmain-rivet.

Alchemical Items

Characters with the Magicks (Brew) specialty can produce draughts,
salves, and concoctions.

Draughts

Imbibing a draught is a Drop 1 combined action if the item is in hand;
the effects last until the end of the scene. Draughts with increased
potency have a cost equal to the die value; e.g., a D10 Aggression
Draught has a cost of D10.

Draughts provide a Charm die bonus on a given specialty. Since you can
only include one Charm die in a given dice pool, a character can’t
benefit from both the draught and a charmwoven item that affect the same
specialty, only one or the other.

  Item                          Cost    Affected Specialty
  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------
  Accuracy Draught            D6, bulk  Military (Aim)
  Aggression Draught          D6, bulk  Dueling (Lunge)
  Courage Draught             D6, bulk  Remove 1D6 Yield
  Detective’s Vice            D6, bulk  Observation (Deduce)
  Eagle Eyes Draught          D6, bulk  Observation (Perceive)
  Elusiveness Draught         D6, bulk  Defense (Dodge)
  Mathematical Draught        D6, bulk  Science (Calculus)
  Memory Draught              D6, bulk  All knowledge rolls
  Serpent’s Tongue Draught    D6, bulk  Interaction (Deceive)
  Soothing Words Draught      D6, bulk  Interaction (Negotiate)
  Tactics Draught             D6, bulk  Military (Strategy)
  Teetotaler’s Tea            D6, bulk  Streetwise (Carouse)

Salves

Salves, oils, and unguents are applied externally, usually to the hands,
requiring one turn to use. The effects last until the end of the scene.
Salves with increased potency have a cost equal to the die value.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Item               Cost  Function
  ----------------- ------ ----------------------------------------------
  Brawler’s Balm     D6,   Military (Brawl)
                     bulk  

  Farmer’s Salve     D6,   Nature (Husbandry)
                     bulk  

  Fireproofing Oil   D6,   Science (Blackpowder)
                     bulk  

  Healing Unguent    D6,   Medicine (Surgery, Treat) rolls made on the
                     bulk  recipient

  Nimblefingers      D6,   Streetwise (Larceny)
  Unction            bulk  

  Silence Oil        D6,   Nature (Prowl)
                     bulk  

  Weaver’s Lotion    D6,   Magicks (Weave)
                     bulk  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

Concoctions

Concoctions are mixtures that can be prepared beforehand or activated on
the spot by an alchemist orother character with skill in Magicks (Brew).
Making a Brew roll to produce a concoction takes one turn, with Moderate
(3D8) standard opposition; successes are spent as shown on the table
below. Each concoction created requires the expenditure of one unit of
Alchemical Supplies.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Concoction      Effect Produced
  --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  Firefly Glow    Phosphorescent chemicals that glow for one hour per + spent.
                  Can be applied to one item of pocket, handheld, or portable
                  size.

  Nauseating      A horrible odor fills one Area per + spent.
  Smell           

  Neutralizing    Negate one persistent effect caused by any concoction per +
  Agent           spent.

  Oil Slick       Dodge rolls in an adjacent Area take a Drop penalty equal to
                  the number of + spent.

  Photoreactive   A flash of light that can be seen up to one league away for
  Flash           every + spent.

  Smoke Cloud     A cloud of harmless smoke that fills one Area per + spent.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Poisons

There are three types of standard poisons in general use: lethal poison,
impairing poison, and sleep poison. For general rules on how to use and
apply poison, see the Medicine (Poison) specialty in the Skills
document.

Poisons are created by expending Alchemical Supplies and making a
Medicine (Poison) roll. New characters who are provocateurs can choose
which poisons they wish to begin with.

Poison antidote is general-use and can be used against any type of
standard poison. It’s ineffective against some exotic poisons, such as
yellow-bellied scorpion venom.

  Item                   Cost    Function
  ------------------- ---------- ----------------------------
  Antidote             D6, bulk  Expend 1 per use of Poison
  Poison, deadly       D6, bulk  Expend 1 per use of Poison
  Poison, impairing    D6, bulk  Expend 1 per use of Poison
  Poison, sleep        D6, bulk  Expend 1 per use of Poison

Deadly Poison

  ------ -----------------
   +++:  Inflict 1 Wound
  ------ -----------------

INFLICT 1 WOUND: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes Wounds
equalling her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from
one to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is
dying.

Impairing Poison

  ------ ----------------------
   +++:  Inflict Drop Penalty
  ------ ----------------------

INFLICT DROP PENALTY: Your opponent gains a Drop penalty on all rolls
equal to one die for every three Success Points you spend, up to a
maximum of Drop 4. This impairment lasts for 1 hour.

Sleep Poison

  ---- -----------------
   +:  Inflict 1 Yield
  ---- -----------------

INFLICT 1 YIELD: Your opponent takes one Yield for every Success Point
you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she
is Yielded Out.

Clockworks

Clockwork Devices

Each device consists of the following:

-   1 Casing
-   1 or more Power Sources
-   1 or more Components

GEAR SPACE: Each casing has a certain amount of gear space available,
depending upon its size. The power source and the components use up that
space once installed. A miniaturization component can be installed in a
casing to increase its effective gear space.

POWER: Each power source delivers a set amount of power, dependent on
the type of power source and the method of producing that power. Each
component consumes a specified amount of power, and the power source’s
output must be enough to cover the power used by the components. Power
is measured in power units.

COMPLEXITY: The complexity of a device is equal to the number of power
sources plus the number of components.

Constructing a Device

NOTE: THESE RULES ARE OBSOLUTE AND THIS SECTION NEEDS TO BE REWRITTEN TO
REFLECT THE CURRENT CRAFTING RULES.

There are five steps to creating a device:

1.  Plan the Device
2.  Purchase the Supplies
3.  Build the Parts
4.  Install the Parts
5.  Complete the Device

Plan the Device

Before you start, you should plan out what you want your device to do.
Decide how large the device will be – the size of its casing. Determine
what capabilities it will have by the components you choose to install,
and make sure that you have a strong enough power source to provide
power to those components.

Once you have the device planned out, you can spend four hours to make a
Science (Calculus) roll to draft a set of plans for building the device.
This is optional, but is highly recommended as it gives you an
additional die to roll when installing parts in your device and
completing it.

The difficulty of the Science (Calculus) roll to draw plans is
determined by the complexity of the device you are designing, as shown
on the table below.

   Device Complexity  Standard Opposition
  ------------------- -----------------------
           2          Easy (3D6)
         3 – 4        Moderate (3D8)
         5 – 8        Hard (3D10)
          9+          Very Difficult (3D12)

If you earn at least two success points on the Science (Calculus) roll,
you have successfully drawn plans that will give you (or anyone else who
follows them) a D6 bonus on rolls to install and complete the device.
For each additional two success points you spend, you can increase the
size of that die up to a maximum limited by your ranks in Science
(Calculus), as shown below.

   Calculus Ranks   Maximum Die
  ---------------- -------------
         +1             D6
         +2             D8
         +3             D10
         +4             D12
         +5             D12

PROTOTYPE: If you have an existing prototype for the device, either
created by yourself or by someone else, you gain a bonus D6 die on the
roll to draw plans. The prototype does not need to be currently
functional for you to gain this bonus.

Purchase the Supplies

There are three ways to acquire the parts needed for constructing a
device: build them yourself, buy them from another clockworker, or
salvage the parts from another device.

If you are going to build your own parts, you will need to buy gear
supplies. Make a Wealth roll against the cost and availability of gear
supplies – D8 for the cost, and D6 availability unless you are in a
large city (in which case the availability is D0). Each success point on
the Wealth roll enables you to buy one unit of gear supplies since they
are a bulk item.

If you are going to buy certain parts, you will also make a Wealth roll
based on the cost of the part (casing, power source, or component) that
you wish to purchase. The cost for each is listed in the descriptions of
each part later in this chapter. A casing has an availability of D0,
while power sources and components have an availability equal to the
highest die of their costs.

For details on salvaging parts and supplies, see the later section on
Salvage.

Build the Parts

You can save money by building your own casing, although this does
consume more time. A roll is not necessary, although you must have
competency in the Science (Clockworks) specialty to construct a usable
casing. See the later section on Constructing a Power Source for more
information.

Building a power source or a component requires a number of gear
supplies as shown on the table for that part, and at least four hours’
work. At the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll and for
each success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point’s worth
of gear supplies to create components or power sources. Multiple rolls
may be required to create all the parts needed for a complex device.

SKILL LIMIT: The total number of gears that you can spend on a single
part is limited to your number of specialty ranks in Science
(Clockworks).

STANDARD OPPOSITION: The difficulty for this roll is Easy (3D6) if you
are in a workshop, or Hard (3D10) if you are not.

TOOLS:If you have clockworker’s tools, you gain an item die (usually D6)
on this roll. If you are in a workshop, you gain a D8 item bonus
instead.

PLANS: The plans for the overall device do not apply on this roll.

PROTOTYPE: You gain no bonus for having a prototype of the device when
making this roll.

Install the Parts

Installing a power source or component in a casing requires a Science
(Clockworks) roll (or series of rolls). The difficulty is Easy (3D6) if
you are in a workshop, or Hard (3D10) if you are not. Each roll takes
four hours, and each success point installs one power source or
component.

TOOLS: If you have clockworker’s tools, you gain an item die (usually
D6) on this roll. If you are in a workshop, you gain a D8 item bonus
instead.

PLANS: If you have plans for the device, you gain a bonus die based on
the quality of the plans when making this roll.

PROTOTYPE: If you have a prototype of the device, you gain a bonus D6
die on this roll. The prototype does not need to be currently functional
for you to gain this bonus.

Complete the Device

Once all the components have been successfully installed, the device
needs to be completed. This requires no roll, but does require one hour
of work per point of complexity of the device.

Casings

Casings are measured by their physical size, which determines the amount
of gear space within the casing.

PURCHASING A CASING: Casings are either purchased at the cost shown
below or constructed by the clockworker for no cost. The availability of
a casing is always D0. Gear supplies cannot be spent on casing costs.

CREATING A CASING: It takes one hour per point of Gear Space to create a
casing. No skill roll is required, but the clockworker must have at
least one rank in the Clockworks specialty.

CASING NOTATION: A casing is described by listing the size of the casing
followed by the gear space of that casing in parentheses. Examples:
pocket (space 1), person (space 8), building (space 64).

  Casing Size    Cost   Gear Space
  ------------- ------ ------------
  Pocket          D0        1
  Handheld        D0        2
  Portable        D6        4
  Person          D6        8
  Carriage        D8        16
  Room           D10        32
  Building       D12        64

Pocket Size

A pocket-sized device is easily concealed, requires only one hand to
operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing.
Examples include pocketwatches and wrist holsters.

Handheld Size

A handheld device requires usually requires one hand to operate and can
be carried on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Examples include
clockwork pistols and gearswords.

Portable Size

A portable device is one which requires two hands to carry and operate,
or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Most don’t need to be
self-mobile. Examples include clockwork muskets and wing-gliders.

Person Size

An object roughly the size of a person – such as a statue – can’t be
easily carried by a single person without requiring her full attention.
Most are therefore either stationary devices or self-mobile. Examples
include humanoid automata and velocipedes.

Carriage Size

Larger than a human but smaller than a room, carriage-sized devices are
on the scale of large pieces of furniture. Unless self-mobile, they
require several people in order to transport. Examples include clockwork
carriages and some industrial machines.

Room Size

Room-sized devices take up the entire space of a sizable room, and are
therefore rarely portable unless self-mobile. Examples include some
analytical engines and most watermills.

Building Size

Devices the size of a building are usually as large as a two or three
story building with a half-dozen rooms. Examples include airships and
clock towers.

Power Sources

Power sources are rated by how much space they take up inside a casing,
by how much power they can provide, and by how that power is activated
to enable components.

PURCHASING A POWER SOURCE: A power source can be purchased,
pre-assembled, for the cost shown on the table for that power source.
The availability is equal to the highest cost die of the power source.

CONSTRUCTING A POWER SOURCE: Unless otherwise specified, a power source
can be constructed by a clockworker. This requires a number of gear
supplies as shown on the table for that power source, and at least four
hours’ work. At the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll
and for each success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point’s
worth of gear supplies.

SKILL LIMIT: The total number of gears that a clockworker can spend on a
single power source is limited to her number of specialty ranks in
Science (Clockworks). For example, a clockworker with Science
(Clockworks) +3 can only spend 3 gears on creating a mainspring power
source.

_Note:_ There are a few power sources that cannot be constructed using
the Clockworks specialty. This will be noted in the description of the
power source along with information about the required skill for
construction. The roll is otherwise treated like the Clockworks
specialty roll.

POWER SOURCE NOTATION: A power source is described by listing the name
of the power source followed by the space, power supply, other qualities
of the power source, and the duration. Examples: gear train (space 1,
power supply 2, Drop 1, one action); mainspring (space 4, power supply
4, wind 1 minute, duration 10 minutes); tension trigger (space 1, power
supply 2, reset Drop 2, one use).

Alchemical Capacitor

An alchemical capacitor is a simple jar device that is used to generate,
capture, and store electrical energy through alchemical means. A crude
electromechanical interface allows the energy of the capacitor to be
released and used over an extended period of time.

Each alchemical capacitor functions for 24 hours before needing to be
replaced and reinstalled in a device. The power supply’s duration is the
same if it is used once during that time period or used repeatedly.

CREATING AN ALCHEMICAL CAPACITOR: The Magicks (Brew) specialty is
required to create an alchemical capacitor, and it requires the use of
alchemical supplies to do so. The maximum number of alchemical supplies
that can be spent to create an alchemical capacitor is equal to the
brewer’s ranks in Magicks (Brew).

   Space  Cost          Supplies          Power Supplied   Duration
  ------- ------ ----------------------- ---------------- ----------
     2    D6      1 alchemical supplies         1          24 Hours
     4    D8      2 alchemical supplies         2          24 Hours
     8    D10     3 alchemical supplies         3          24 Hours
    16    D12     4 alchemical supplies         4          24 Hours

Gear Train

A gear train is used to transmit mechanical energy to a device as part
of the same action that uses the device; this mechanical energy is
supplied by the muscular activity of the device’s user. This activity is
a combined action that imposes a Drop 4 to Drop 0 penalty on that
action. The power thus supplied is only good for that specific action.

For example, a velocipede might have a Drop1 penalty required to provide
3 units of power, which can then be used to power the carry and movement
components of the velocipede. This imposes that Drop 1 penalty on
actions undertaken by the rider of the velocipede during the turn in
which it’s ridden.

VARIABLE GEAR TRAIN: The power units and the drop penalty of any given
gear train are usually fixed, as shown on the table below. A gear train
(space 0, power supply 2, Drop 2) will always supply 2 power units and
require a Drop 2 penalty to operate. However, a gear train can be made
variable by increasing the space by 1 and the cost by D6 (1 gear); this
allows variable power supply based on the amount of Drop penalty taken
to power it. For example, a variable gear train (space 0+1, power supply
1/2/3, Drop 1/2/4) supplies 1 power unit if a Drop 1 penalty is applied,
2 power units for a Drop 2 penalty, and 3 power units for a Drop 4
penalty.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power Supplied    Drop     Duration
  ------- ------ ---------- ---------------- -------- ------------
     0      D0    0 gears          1          Drop 1   One Action
     0      D0    0 gears          2          Drop 2   One Action
     0      D0    0 gears          1          Drop 4   One Action
     1      D6     1 gear          1          Drop 0   One Action
     1      D6     1 gear          2          Drop 1   One Action
     1      D6     1 gear          3          Drop 2   One Action
     1      D6     1 gear          4          Drop 4   One Action
     2      D8    2 gears          2          Drop 0   One Action
     2      D8    2 gears          3          Drop 1   One Action
     2      D8    2 gears          4          Drop 2   One Action
     4     D10    3 gears          3          Drop 0   One Action
     4     D10    3 gears          4          Drop 1   One Action
     8     D12    4 gears          4          Drop 0   One Action

Blackpowder Flintlock

A blackpowder flintlock is a kind of trigger that fires off once, using
exploding blackpowder to provide energy to power the device’s
components. After the blackpowder flintlock is triggered, it must be
reloaded with blackpowder and reset – a procedure which takes an amount
of time as shown on the table below.

Creating a Blackpowder Flintlock: The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is
required to create a blackpowder flintlock, and it requires the use of
clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can
be spent to create a blackpowder flintlock is equal to the
powderworker’s ranks in Science (Blackpowder).

   Space   Cost         Supplies          Power Supplied    Reset    Duration
  ------- ------ ----------------------- ---------------- --------- ----------
     1      D0    0 blackpowder charges         2          Drop 1    One use
     1      D6    1 blackpowder charge          4          Drop 2    One use
     2      D8    2 blackpowder charges         6          Drop 4    One use
     3     D10    3 blackpowder charges         8          2 Turns   One use
     4     D12    4 blackpowder charges         10         3 Turns   One use

Mainspring

A mainspring is a complex clockwork spring used to store power until it
needs to be released. The initial power is put into the mainspring by
winding it and then is released by a mechanical flywheel.

The capabilities of a mainspring are measured in both how much power is
provided and how that power is stored and released; each factor is
purchased separately as shown on the tables below. To design a
mainspring, you need to determine both the power output and the duration
separately, paying the cost (in wealth rolls or gear supplies) for each.

A mainspring can’t be wound for more than 10 minutes; at that point, the
mainspring is holding the full amount of power that it is able to store
and release.

ONE TURN WINDING/ONE USE PER SUCCESS POINT DURATION: If the winding time
is one turn and the duration is one use per success point, make a
Science (Clockworks) check against Easy (3D6) standard difficulty. Each
success point grants one use of the device before the end of the scene.

VARIABLE MAINSPRING: The winding time and duration any given mainspring
are usually fixed, as shown on the table below. A mainspring (space 1,
power supply 1, wind 1 minute, duration 10 minutes) will always require
1 minute of winding and provide 10 minutes of power. However, a
mainspring can be made variable by increasing the space by 1 and the
cost by D6 (1 gear); this allows variable duration based on the amount
of time spent winding it. For example, a variable mainspring (space 1+1,
power supply 1, wind 1 turn/1 minute/10 minutes, duration 1 minute/10
minutes/1 hour) supplies power for 1 minute if wound for 1 turn, 10
minutes if wound for 1 minute, and 1 hour if wound for 10 minutes.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power Supplied
  ------- ------ ---------- ----------------
     1      D0    0 gears          1
     2      D6     1 gear          2
     4      D8    2 gears          4
     8     D10    3 gears          6
    16     D12    4 gears          8

   Space   Cost   Supplies  Wind         Duration
  ------- ------ ---------- ------------ ---------------------------
    +0      D0    0 gears   1 Turn       One use per success point
    +0      D0    0 gears   1 minute     1 minute
    +0      D0    0 gears   10 minutes   10 minutes
    +0      D6     1 gear   1 Turn       1 minute
    +0      D6     1 gear   1 minute     10 minutes
    +0      D6     1 gear   10 minutes   1 hour
    +0      D8    2 gears   1 Turn       10 minutes
    +0      D8    2 gears   1 minute     1 hour
    +0      D8    2 gears   10 minutes   24 hours
    +0     D10    3 gears   1 minute     24 hours

Naturalistic Turbine

A naturalistic turbine is one that is hooked up to a source of power
that exists in the natural world – running water, winds, or tidal flow.
Naturalistic turbines produce a steady but low amount of power, without
requiring any special actions or fuel to make them function. Setting up
a naturalistic turbine to use any given natural energy supply requires
one hour per power unit produced, so most are installed in permanent
locations such as windmills or watermills.

NATURAL LIMITS: A stream can produce up to 2 power units, while larger
rivers can supply up to 4. Wind power varies between 0 and 3 power units
in most situations. Tidal flow usually only can provide 1 power unit.

SAILS: A sail takes up half the space of a normal naturalistic turbine,
but the power supplied can only be used for movement. It also requires
the purchase of one unit of fabric supplies per power unit.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power Supplied
  ------- ------ ---------- ----------------
     2      D6     1 gear          1
     4      D8    2 gears          2
     6     D10    3 gears          3
     8     D12    4 gears          4

Phlogistone Furnace

A phlogistone furnace burns the rare mineral phlogistone to use for
generating lift and propulsion. It is primarily used in airships and can
be prohibitively expensive for other uses.

LIMITED POWER: Power units produced by a phlogistone furnace can only be
used to power carry and movement components.

ENVELOPE: A charmwoven cloth envelope is necessary for use with a
phlogistone furnace; this requires the skills of a charmweaver with at
least 4 specialty ranks in Magicks (Weave).

FUEL: Each hour that a phlogistone furnace is in use, it burns one pound
of phlogistone per power unit supplied. The amount of power supplied can
be reduced by burning lesser quantities of phlogistone.

CREATING A PHLOGISTONE FURNACE: The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is
required to create a phlogistone furnace, and it requires the use of
clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can
be spent to create a phlogistone furnace is equal to the powderworker’s
ranks in Science (Blackpowder).

   Space   Cost   Supplies  Power Supplied                 Envelope Cost   Envelope Supplies
  ------- ------ ---------- ----------------------------- --------------- -------------------
     4     D12    4 gears   10 (carry or movement only)         D10            4 fabric
     6     2D12   5 gears   20 (carry or movement only)         D12            5 fabric

Tension Trigger

A tension trigger stores energy for use and then releases it. To reset a
tension trigger, you need to take a reset action, which is a combined
action with a penalty of Drop 1 to Drop 4. Unlike gear trains, tension
triggers store energy for future use rather than immediate use, but
unlike mainsprings a tension trigger will only store that energy for a
single use.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power Supplied   Reset   Duration
  ------- ------ ---------- ---------------- -------- ----------
     0      D0    0 gears          1          Drop 4  One use
     0      D6     1 gear          1          Drop 2  One use
     0      D6     1 gear          2          Drop 1  One use
     1      D8    2 gears          1          Drop 1  One use
     1      D8    2 gears          2          Drop 2  One use
     1      D8    2 gears          3          Drop 4  One use
     1     D10    3 gears          2          Drop 1  One use
     1     D10    3 gears          3          Drop 2  One use
     1     D12    4 gears          3          Drop 1  One use

Components

Components provide the basic functionality of a clockwork device, and
are rated by how much space they take up inside a casing, by how much
power require to run, and by the effects the component can produce.

PURCHASING A COMPONENT: A component can be purchased, pre-assembled, for
the cost shown on the table for that component type. The availability is
equal to the highest cost die of the component.

CONSTRUCTING A COMPONENT: Unless otherwise specified, a component can be
constructed by a clockworker. This requires a number of gear supplies as
shown on the table for that component, and at least four hours’ work. At
the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll and for each
success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point’s worth of
gear supplies to construct components or power sources.

SKILL LIMIT: The total number of gears that a clockworker can spend on a
component is limited to her number of specialty ranks in Science
(Clockworks). For example, a clockworker with +3 Science (Clockworks)
can only spend 3 gears on creating a movement component.

COMPONENT NOTATION: A power source is described by listing the name of
the power source followed by the space, power requirements, and other
qualities of the component. Examples: articulation (space 1, power 0,
Drop 1); carry (space 2, power 1, person); projectile weapon (space 3,
power 1, weapon die d8, close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 0, long
Drop 2).

Armor

Armor plating protects both the device itself and anyone using or within
the device. The armor component grants an Armor Die that can be used for
Defense (Block) rolls.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Armor Die
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- -----------
     0      D0    0 gears      0        D0
     1      D6     1 gear      0        D6
     2      D8    2 gears      0        D8
     4     D10    3 gears      0        D10
     8     D12    4 gears      0        D12

Articulation

Clockwork devices are inherently clumsy; if used as replacements for a
human’s natural ability, they take a Drop 4 penalty on associated
actions. This is primarily the case when someone replaces part of her
body with a clockwork limb, such as an arm or a leg. The articulation
component reduces those penalties from Drop 4 down to Drop 2, Drop 1 or
Drop 0.

Creating an Articulation Component: The Medicine (Surgery) specialty is
required to create an articulation component with a low Drop penalty.
Surgery +1 is required for Drop 1, and Surgery +2 for Drop 0.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Penalty
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ---------
     0      D0    0 gears      0     Drop 4
     1      D0    0 gears      0     Drop 2
     2      D0    0 gears      0     Drop 1
     0      D6     1 gear      0     Drop 2
     1      D6     1 gear      0     Drop 1
     2      D6     1 gear      0     Drop 0
     0      D8    2 gears      0     Drop 1
     1      D8    2 gears      0     Drop 0
     0     D10    3 gears      0     Drop 0

Calculation

The calculation component gives the device the ability to compute
certain values when given appropriate information. The simplest form of
calculation is simple timekeeping; nearly any clockwork device can be
made to function as a clock.

More advanced calculations can compute the calendar date (including holy
days and stellar phenomenon), plot out a navigation course, do complex
polynomial math such as ballistics, or even do relatively complex
analytical analysis.

Unless the device has the measurement component, it is reliant upon user
input for all appropriate information, such as the longitude and
latitude, the weather conditions, and so on. Faulty data can lead to
faulty calculations.

Creating a Calculation Component: The Science (Calculus) specialty is
required to create a calculation component and it requires the use of
clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can
be spent to create a calculation component is equal to the creator’s
ranks in Science (Calculus).

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power  Calculation Complexity
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ------------------------
     0      D0    0 gears      1    Timekeeping
     1      D6     1 gear      1    Calendar
     2      D8    2 gears      1    Navigation
     4     D10    3 gears      1    Polynomials
     8     D12    4 gears      1    Analytics

Carry

The carry component gives a device the ability to lift additional
weight. Most devices with the movement component have enough carrying
capacity to lift themselves, including a normal load; some have even
greater capacity depending on their use.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Carrying Capacity
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------------------
     0      D0    0 gears      1          Pocket
     0      D0    0 gears      1         Handheld
     1      D6     1 gear      1         Portable
     2      D6     1 gear      1          Person
     4      D8    2 gears      2         Carriage
     8     D10    3 gears      4           Room
    16     D12    4 gears      8         Building

Delay Timer

A delay timer prevents a power source from providing power to a device
until a fixed amount of time has passed. To use the delay trigger
component, first it must be armed and the length of delay set. The delay
durations shown are not randomly determined but are set by the user,
although each with a set range has a minimum of one time unit.

Delay timers are most frequently used with blackpowder flintlock or
tension trigger power sources, and often trigger projectile weapon traps
or bombs.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power  Arm        Delay Duration
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ---------- -----------------------
     1      D0    0 gears      0    Drop 2     End of current action
     1      D6     1 gear      0    1 Turn     1-10 Turns
     1      D8    2 gears      0    1 Turn     1-10 Minutes
     1     D10    3 gears      0    1 minute   1-8 Hours
     1     D12    4 gears      0    1 minute   1-6 Days

Efficiency

The efficiency component reduces the time necessary to do a simple,
repetitive task. For combined actions, this reduces the Drop penalty by
1, 2 or 4 – but with a minimum of Drop 1. For other repetitive tasks
this reduces the time needed to complete those tasks, through mechanical
automation. For example, a mechanized loom could cut in half the time
needed to produce simple cloth.

An efficiency component cannot reduce the time of complex tasks that
involve specialty rolls, such as charmweaving or surgery.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power  Drop Reduction     Time Reduction
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ------------------ --------------------
     1      D0    0 gears      1    Reduce Drop by 1   Reduce Time by 10%
     2      D6     1 gear      1    Reduce Drop by 2   Reduce Time by 25%
     4      D8    2 gears      1    Reduce Drop by 4   Reduce Time by 50%
     8     D10    3 gears      2    –                  Reduce Time by 75%
    16     D12    4 gears      4    –                  Reduce Time by 90%

Explosion

This component produces a loud and potentially deadly explosion. It’s
used in creating bombs or grenades.

POWER REQUIREMENT: An explosion component can only be powered by a
blackpowder flintlock or an alchemical capacitor. Note that blackpowder
flintlocks are a lot more effective at powering an explosion than an
alchemical capacitor.

ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE: An explosion does damage to everything inside a
given area. More powerful explosions also do damage in adjacent areas,
and even targets up to 2 areas away for the most powerful explosions.
This environmental damage inflicts one yield for one success point, and
one wound for three success points.

SELF-DESTRUCTION: Upon use, the device is destroyed by the force of its
own explosion.

CREATING AN EXPLOSION COMPONENT: The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is
required to create an explosion component and it requires the use of
blackpowder supplies to do so. The maximum number of blackpowder
supplies that can be spent to create an explosion component is equal to
the powderworker’s ranks in Science (Blackpowder).

   Space   Cost         Supplies          Power  Environmental Damage (1 area, 2 areas)
  ------- ------ ----------------------- ------- ----------------------------------------
     1      D0    1 blackpowder charge      2    3D6
     1      D6    2 blackpowder charges     4    3D8
     2      D8    3 blackpowder charges     6    3D10 (3D6)
     4     D10    4 blackpowder charges     8    3D12 (3D8)
     8     D12    5 blackpowder charges    10    5D12 (3D10, 3D6)

Hand-to-Hand Weapon

The Hand-to-Hand Weapon component gives a device the ability to be used
as a weapon by granting it a Weapon Die, and assigning it a Weapon
Prowess category. Choose one option from each of the following tables to
define a complete Hand-to-Hand Weapon.

SIZE LIMIT: A device with the hand-to-hand weapon component can be no
larger than Portable size.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Weapon Die
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ------------
     1      D0    0 gears      0         D6
     2      D0    0 gears      0         D8
     4      D6     1 gear      0        D10
     8      D8    2 gears      0        D12

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power  Casing Size   Weapon Prowess    Max Weapon Die
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ------------- ---------------- ----------------
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Pocket        Knife                  1D6
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Handheld      Knife                  1D8
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Handheld      Sword                  1D10
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Handheld      Cudgel                 1D10
    +1      D0    0 gears     +0    Portable      Sword                  1D12
    +2      D0    0 gears     +0    Portable      Cudgel                 1D12
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Portable      Pike                   1D12

Injector

The injector component gives a device the ability to inject a fluid,
such as an alchemical solution or a vial of poison, into a living
creature. A device can hold only one dose and it takes a Drop 4 action
to refill the device.

Using the device in a combat situation requires a Medicine (Poisons)
roll to deliver its payload.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power
  ------- ------ ---------- -------
     1      D6     1 gear      1
     1      D8    2 gears      0

Item Die

The item die component allows you to add an Item Die for one specialty
to a device. For example, a spyglass could provide an Item Die on
Observation (Perceive) rolls, or a tricked-out screwdriver could provide
an Item Die on Science (Clockwork) rolls.

To provide a bonus to more than one specialty, add another Item Die
component for each additional specialty.

DEFENSE (PARRY), DUELING: Use the Hand-to-Hand Weapon component to add a
melee Weapon Die to a device.

DEFENSE (BLOCK): Use the Armor component to add an Armor Die to a
device.

INITIATIVE: These specialties can never benefit from an Item Die.

MILITARY (AIM): Use the Projectile Weapon component to add a ranged
Weapon Die to a device.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Item Die
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ----------
     1      D0    0 gears      0        D6
     2      D6     1 gear      0        D8
     4      D8    2 gears      1       D10
     8     D10    3 gears      2       D12

Magazine

A magazine component holds multiple shots of ammunition (bullets and
powder or quarrels, for example) for a device with the projectile weapon
component. The amount held in each magazine, and the time required to
reload the device with a full magazine, are shown in the table below.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Shots  Reload
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ------- ---------
     1      D0    0 gears      0       2    Drop 4
     1      D6     1 gear      0       4    Drop 4
     2      D8    2 gears      0       8    2 Turns
     4     D10    3 gears      0      16    3 Turns
     8     D12    4 gears      0      32    4 Turns

Measurement

The measurement component allows a device to take a reading of the
physical environment around it. By default, this is displayed on the
device in some way. Examples of qualities that can be measured include
the temperature, barometric pressure, altitude, longitude and latitude,
velocity, oceanic depth, compass directions, sound levels, and more. A
worn device could measure the wearer’s speed, heart rate, or blood
pressure.

A measurement component is often tied to a calculation component to
allow the device to process the information that it measures.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Qualities Measured
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- --------------------
     1      D0    0 gears      1             1
     1      D6     1 gear      0             1
     1      D6     1 gear      1             2
     1      D8    2 gears      0             2
     1      D8    2 gears      2             4
     2     D10    3 gears      0             4
     2     D10    3 gears      2             8
     4     D12    4 gears      0             8
     4     D12    4 gears      4             16

Miniaturization

The miniaturization component doesn’t actually add any capabilities to a
device, but it makes it easier to fit more into the casing of the
device. The component makes space in the device by reducing the size of
existing components; this is reflected by additional gear space that is
added to that of the casing.

UNIQUE COMPONENT: A device can have only one miniaturization component.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Additional Gear Space
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- -----------------------
     0      D0    0 gears      0              +1
     0      D6     1 gear      0              +2
     0      D8    2 gears      0              +4
     0     D10    3 gears      0              +6
     0     D12    4 gears      0              +8

Movement

The movement component gives the device the ability to move itself.

CARRY COMPONENT REQUIRED: A device with a movement component must have a
carry component of at least the same size as the device’s casing.

ROLL: The device moves at half speed when not on a road or other flat
surface.

CLIMB: The device can move up and down vertically.

STEP: The device can walk like a human or animal.

GLIDE: The device must maintain at least Walk speed in order to stay
aloft.

FLOAT: The device is a boat or ship and can travel on the surface of the
water.

SUBMERGE: In addition to being able to float on the surface of the
water, the device can go beneath the waves like a submersible.

FLY: The device can fly through the air. Unless it is powered by a
Phlogistone Furnace, the device must maintain a minimum of Walk speed in
order to stay aloft.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power    Walk       Run    Overland Speed
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- --------- --------- ---------------------
     1      D0    0 gears      0     0 Areas   1 Area   1 league per hour
     1      D6     1 gear      1     1 Area    2 Areas  3 leagues per hour
     2      D8    2 gears      2     1 Area    3 Areas  6 leagues per hour
     4     D10    3 gears      3     1 Area    4 Areas  10 leagues per hour
     8     D12    4 gears      4     1 Area    5 Areas  15 leagues per hour

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power  Movement Mode   Maximum Speed
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- --------------- ---------------
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Roll            3 Areas
    +1      D0     1 gear     +0    Step            3 Areas
    +1      D6     1 gear     +0    Climb           2 Areas
    +2      D0    0 gears     -1    Glide           3 Areas
    +2      D0    0 gears     +1    Float           4 Areas
    +4      D6     1 gear     +2    Submerge        3 Areas
    +8      D6     1 gear     +3    Fly             5 Areas

Powered Weapon

A powered weapon is a melee weapon that has been modified with moving
parts to make it even more deadly – for example, a rotating flail or a
chain-toothed sword. The powered weapon component grants a bonus die
that can be used whenever the device’s Weapon Die is used, including
Defense (Parry) rolls and Dueling rolls.

SIZE LIMIT: A device with the powered weapon component can be no larger
than Portable size.

REQUIRES HAND-TO-HAND WEAPON: You can only add this component to a
device if it already possesses the hand-to-hand weapon component. The
powered weapon Bonus Die cannot exceed the Weapon Die of the device.

Space | Cost | Supplies | Power | Bonus Die |
:—: | ;–: | :——: | :—: | :——–: |
1 | D6 | 1 gear | 1 | D6 |
1 | D8 | 2 gears | 1 | D8 |
2 | D10 | 3 gears | 2 | D10 |
4 | D12 | 4 gears | 3 | D12 |

Projectile Weapon

A projectile weapon component fires a bullet, dart, arrow, quarrel,
cannonball, or other projectile at a target. Most devices use the
Military (Aim) specialty to attack, and gain a Weapon Die when doing so.
As with other missile weapons in The Queen’s Cavaliers, it’s not
necessary to track ammunition carried, but it is necessary to know
whether or not the weapon is loaded.

In addition to selecting the Weapon Die, reload time, and range
modifiers for the weapon, the designer also specifies which Weapon
prowess is used with the weapon. Devices which require the Cannon weapon
prowess use the Science (Blackpowder) specialty for attacks instead of
Military (Aim).

MAGAZINE: A projectile weapon can optionally be fitted with a magazine
component to increase the number of times it can be fired without
reloading. In such a situation, the projectile weapon component loses
its reload quality and uses the reload time of the magazine instead.

SIZE LIMIT: A device with the projectile weapon component can be no
larger than Carriage size. (For cannons on larger buildings or ships,
just place the cannons as separate devices.)

RANGES: The range of a projectile weapon component is determined by
adding together a composite of all chosen range lines. Lines cannot be
combined if they both contain a value for the same range. All ranges
must be filled in with a Drop penalty or N/A.

The default ranges for a weapon with no extra space, cost, or power
requirements are: close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 1, long N/A.

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Weapon Die   Reload
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ------------ --------
     1      D0    0 gears      1         D6       Drop 1
     1      D6     1 gear      1         D8       Drop 1
     2      D8    2 gears      1        D10       Drop 2
     4     D10    3 gears      2        D12       Drop 4

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power   Close (0)   Short (1-2)   Medium (3-4)   Long (5+)
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ----------- ------------- -------------- -----------
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0      Drop 0         N/A                     
    +1      D0    0 gears     +0      Drop 0                                 
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0      Drop 0                                 
    +1      D0    0 gears     +0      Drop 0                                 
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0      Drop 1                                 
    +0      Do    0 gears     +0      Drop 2         N/A                     
    +2      D0    0 gears     +1        N/A        Drop 1         Drop 0     
    +0      D0    0 gears     +1        N/A        Drop 1                    
    +0      D6    1 gears     +1      Drop 1                                 
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0      Drop 2                                 

   Space   Cost   Supplies   Power  Casing Size   Max Weapon Die   Skill Prowess
  ------- ------ ---------- ------- ------------- ---------------- ---------------
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Pocket        Pistol +1D6      Pistol
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Handheld      Pistol +1D8      Pistol
    +0      D6     1 gear     +0    Handheld      Bow +1D8         Crossbow
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Portable      Bow +1D10        Crossbow
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Portable      Musket +1D10     Musket
    +0      D6     1 gear     +0    Portable      Cannon +1D10     Cannon
    +0      D6     1 gear     +0    Person        Bow +1D12        Crossbow
    +0      D6     1 gear     +0    Person        Musket +1D12     Musket
    +0      D6     1 gear     +0    Person        Cannon +1D12     Cannon
    +0      D0    0 gears     +0    Carriage      Cannon +1D12     Cannon
    +0      D6     1 gear     +0    Carriage      Crossbow +1D12   Crossbow

Sample Devices

DESIGN NOTE: I haven’t yet rechecked all of these yet, so some of them
might be added up incorrectly or may be using earlier versions of some
of the components.

Autoloader (pistol, musket)

-   CASING SIZE: Pocket (gear space 1)

-   POWER SOURCE: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)

-   COMPONENTS: Efficiency (space 1, power 1, reduce Drop by 1),
    Miniaturization (gear space +1)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D6 (1)

-   LIST COST: D6 (1)

-   COMPLEXITY: 3

An autoloader can be attached to a pistol or a musket to speed up the
reloading of the gun.

Autoloader (cannon)

-   CASING SIZE: Portable (gear space 4)

-   POWER SOURCE: Gear Train (space 0, power supply 1, Drop 1)

-   COMPONENTS: Efficiency (space 4, power 1, reduce reload time by 50%)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST:

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 2

An autoloader attached to a cannon reduces the reload time from 4 rounds
to 2 rounds.

Climbing Gears

-   CASING SIZE: Portable (space 4)

-   POWER SOURCE: Mainspring (space 2, power supply 2, wind 1 turn,
    duration one use per success point)

-   COMPONENTS: Movement (space 2, power 1, walk, climb), Carry (space
    2, power 1, person), Miniaturization (space +2)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D8 (2)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 4

Climbing gears are worn as a harness and operated with two hands,
allowing you to move between areas which are normally not passable.

Clockbow

-   CASING SIZE: Portable (space 4)

-   POWER SOURCE: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, drop 0)

-   COMPONENTS: Projectile Weapon (space 3, power 1, weapon die d8,
    close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 0, long Drop 2), Magazine
    (space 1, 4 shots, power 0, reload Drop 4), Miniaturization (space
    +1)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: 4D6 (3)

-   LIST COST: D10 (3)

-   COMPLEXITY: 4

A clockbow is a clockwork crossbow, fitted with a magazine that holds
four quarrels that can be fired before reloading.

Clockwork Carriage

-   CASING SIZE: Carriage (space 16)

-   POWER SOURCE: Mainspring (space 4, power supply 4, wind 10 minutes,
    duration 1 hour)

-   COMPONENTS: Movement (space 2, power 2, gallop, roll), Carry (space
    4, power 2, carriage)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: 3D10 (9)

-   COMPLEXITY: 3

Clockwork Limb (arm)

-   CASING SIZE: Handheld (space 2)

-   POWER SOURCE: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)

-   COMPONENTS: Carry (space 0, power 1, hand), Articulation (space 0,
    power 0, Drop 1), Armor (space 1, power 0, Armor Die d6)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D12 (4)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 4

Clockwork Limb (leg)

-   CASING SIZE: Portable (space 4)

-   POWER SOURCE: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)

-   COMPONENTS: Carry (space 2 power 1, person), Articulation (space 0,
    power 0, Drop 1), Armor (space 1, power 0, Armor Die d6)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST:

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 4

Clockwork Pistol

-   CASING SIZE: Handheld (space 2)

-   POWER SOURCE: Tension Trigger (space 1, power supply 1, reset
    Drop 1)

-   COMPONENTS: Projectile Weapon (space 1, power 1, range 2 areas,
    damage D6, reload Drop 1)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST:

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 2

Clockwork Musket

-   CASING SIZE: Handheld (space 2)

-   POWER SOURCE: Tension Trigger (space 1, power supply 1, reset
    Drop 1)

-   COMPONENTS: Projectile (space 1, power 1, range 2 areas, damage D6,
    reload Drop 1)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D8 (2 or 4)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 2

Gearsword

-   CASING SIZE: Handheld (space 2)

-   POWER SOURCE: Mainspring (space 1, power supply 1, wind 1 turn,
    duration
-   uses)

-   COMPONENTS: Hand-to-Hand Weapon (space 2, power 0, weapon die D8),
    Powered Melee Attack (space 1, power 1, bonus weapon die D6),
    Miniaturization (space +2)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D10 (3)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY:

Great Gearsword

-   CASING SIZE: Portable (space 2)

-   POWER SOURCE: Mainspring (space 2, power supply 2, wind 1 turn,
    duration
-   uses)

-   COMPONENTS: Melee Attack (space 4, power 0, weapon die D10), Powered
    Melee Attack (space 2, power 2, bonus weapon die D10),
    Miniaturization (space +4)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: (7)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY:

Pocketwatch

-   CASING SIZE: Pocket (space 1)

-   POWER SOURCE: Mainspring (space 1, power supply 1, wind 10 minutes,
    duration 24 hours)

-   COMPONENTS: Calculation (space 0, power 1, timekeeping)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D8 (2)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 2

Wing-Glider

-   CASING SIZE: Portable (space 4)

-   POWER SOURCE: Gear Train (space 1, power 2, usage Drop 1, duration 1
    Action)

-   COMPONENTS: Carry (space 2, power 1, person), Movement (space 3,
    power 1, speed run, gliding)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D12 (4)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 3

Wrist Holster

-   CASING SIZE: Pocket (space 1)

-   POWER SOURCE: Tension Trigger (space 0, power supply 1, reset Drop
    2, duration 1 use)

-   COMPONENTS: Efficiency (space 1, power 1, reduce Drop by 1)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST: D6 (1)

-   LIST COST:

-   COMPLEXITY: 2

Airship

-   CASING SIZE: Building (space 64)
-   POWER SOURCES: Mainspring (space 8, power supply 6, wind 10 minutes,
    duration 24 hours), Phlogistone Furnace (space 8, power supply 10,
    movement and carry only), Gear Train x4 (space 1, power 5, Drop 4)

-   COMPONENTS: Movement (space 16, power 7, cruise, fly), Carry (space
    16, power 8, building), Armor (space 8, power 0, Armor Die D12),
    Calculation (space 2, power 1, navigation)

-   CONSTRUCTION COST:

-   LIST COST: 4d12

-   COMPLEXITY: 10

-   DESIGN NOTE: This airship definitely needs to be recalculated.

Repairing and Salvaging Clockwork Devices

_explanation needed_

Clothing

“Clothes make the woman,” or so the old Lutetian maxim claims. Certainly
this is true in Gallinea’s capital city as well as the rest of Elara;
fashion is a tangible thing in Gallinea.

Charmweaving, which originated in Lutetia, is the practice of adding
specific dyes, trinkets, threads, and other magickal enhancements to
articles of clothing. These enhancements provide bonuses to specific
tasks. For more details, see charmwoven attire in Chapter 9, “Specialty
Equipment.”

Clothing Qualities

Articles of clothing have the following qualities:

WORN ON: Each article of clothing is designed to be worn on a specific
part of your body – head, shoulders, torso, hands, legs, or feet. In
general, you can wear only one item per location, although you may be
able to stack multiple cloaks on your shoulders under certain
circumstances – check with your MJ to be sure.

Items worn on the legs can’t have charms woven into them. (See chapter
9, “Specialty Equipment.”)

SOCIAL RANK: Some items are associated with certain social ranks. This
doesn’t restrict what you can wear, regardless of your own social rank,
but it may affect how you and your outfit are seen by others. The social
rank of an article of clothing can be used as an availability die in a
purchase roll.

SCALE: Articles of clothing are usually handheld scale when carried, and
don’t contribute to encumbrance when worn if the optional system for
encumbrance is used. Items wrapped up in a box for gifting or transport
are one scale category higher, including the packaging.

The following table lists the most common types of clothes that are
found in Gallinea. Detailed descriptions of each type of clothing are
given in Chapter 9.

Articles of Clothing

  Item                  Cost   Worn On     Social Rank
  --------------------- ------ ----------- ----------------
  Beret, artisan’s      1D0    Head        Artisan (1D8)
  Bodice, fine          1D6    Torso       Noble (1D10)
  Bodice, common        1D0    Torso       Commoner (1D0)
  Boots, military       1D6    Feet        Soldier (1D6)
  Boots, work           1D6    Feet        Commoner (1D0)
  Breeches              1D6    Legs        Commoner (1D0)
  Cape, cloth           1D0    Shoulders   Soldier (1D6)
  Cape, fur             1D8    Shoulders   Artisan (1D8)
  Capotain              1D0    Head        Military (1D6)
  Casaque               1D6    Torso       Soldier (1D6)
  Cavalier hat          1D6    Head        Military (1D6)
  Chopines              1D6    Feet        Noble (1D10)
  Cloak                 1D0    Shoulders   Commoner (1D0)
  Doublet, common       1D0    Torso       Commoner (1D0)
  Doublet, fine         1D6    Torso       Noble (1D10)
  Gloves, courtier’s    1D6    Hands       Noble (1D10)
  Gloves, craftsman’s   1D0    Hands       Artisan (1D8)
  Gloves, farmer’s      1D0    Hands       Commoner (1D0)
  Gloves, soldier’s     1D0    Hands       Soldier (1D6)
  Goggles, gearspring   1D6    Head        Artisan (1D8)
  Gown, courtly         1D10   Torso       Noble (1D10)
  Gown, surgeon’s       1D6    Torso       Artisan (1D8)
  Hair ribbons          1D0    Head        Noble (1D10)
  Hose                  1D0    Legs        Noble (1D10)
  Masque                1D0    Head        Noble (1D10)
  Pantaloons            1D6    Legs        Military (1D6)
  Pantofles             1D0    Feet        Artisan (1D8)
  Petticoat             1D6    Legs        Noble (1D10)
  Plague mask           1D6    Head        Artisan (1D8)
  Poulaines             1D0    Feet        Military (1D6)
  Robes                 1D0    Torso       Commoner (1D0)
  Sandals               1D0    Feet        Commoner (1D0)
  Shift                 1D0    Torso       Commoner (1D0)
  Shoes, buckled        1D0    Feet        Commoner (1D0)
  Skirt                 1D6    Legs        Common (1D0)
  Skullcap, clerical    1D0    Head        Artisan (1D8)
  Smock                 1D0    Torso       Commoner (1D0)
  Stockings             1D0    Legs        Commoner (1D0)
  Stole, liturgical     1D0    Shoulders   Artisan (1D8)
  Stole, ornate         1D8    Shoulders   Noble (1D10)
  Tabard                1D6    Shoulders   Soldier (1D6)
  Tricorne              1D6    Head        Military (1D6)
  Vestments             1D6    Torso       Artisan (1D8)

Standard outfits

Many outfits just naturally go together. Every new character starts with
one or two standard outfits depending on her class and backstory. In
addition to sharing a common cost, outfits are all considered part of
the same social rank, regardless of the actual social rank of each item.

outfits

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Item           Cost      Includes
  -------------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------
  Clockworker    2D6       Gearspring goggles, smock, breeches, craftsman’s
  outfit                   gloves, pantofles

  Corsair outfit 4D6       Tricorne, doublet, soldier’s gloves, pantaloons,
                           boots

  Courtly outfit 3D6       Hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves, skirt,
                           chopines

  Crafter outfit 2D6       Artisan’s beret, smock, breeches, craftsman’s
                           gloves, buckled shoes

  Military       2D6       Capotain, soldier’s gloves, breeches, boots, tabard
  outfit                   

  Peasant outfit 1D6       Shift, breeches, buckled shoes

  Physician      3D6       Plague mask, surgeon’s gown, breeches, pantofles
  outfit                   

  Priest outfit  2D6       Clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier’s gloves,
                           breeches, pantofles

  Scholar’s      1D6+1D8   Ornate stole, robes, breeches, poulaines
  outfit                   

  Swashbuckler   4D6       Cavalier hat, doublet, soldier’s gloves, breeches,
  outfit                   boots, cloth cape
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

CLOCKWORKER OUTFIT (ARTISAN 1D8): This is worn while doing mechanician
work, and usually has a lot of extraneous pockets and loops for tools
and gears. The most notable feature is the set of gearspring goggles,
which give an item die bonus of Perceive +1D6 on visual checks.

CORSAIR OUTFIT (SOLDIER 1D6): Worn by sailors and pirates around the
world, and by many would-be buccaneers, this outfit certainly captures
the look of the chic privateer.

COURTLY OUTFIT (NOBLE 1D10): Nobles, and those who must interact with
them, are known for their outlandishly ornate couture and finely
arranged coiffure.

CRAFTER OUTFIT (ARTISAN 1D8): Similar to a clockworker outfit, a crafter
outfit is for doing productive work, be it artistic, magickal, or
smithing in content.

MILITARY OUTFIT (SOLDIER 1D6): Military outfits come with an appropriate
tabard from the correct military unit, noble house, mercenary group, or
city guard. For example, a veteran/constable may have one tabard from
the Gallinean army, and another from the Lutetia watch. Military outfits
don’t come with a torso item, to facilitate the wearing of armor.

PEASANT OUTFIT (COMMONER 1D0): Plain and practical, peasant outfits can
be found throughout Gallinea, and in nearly every social rank. As
they’re easily patched, many peasant outfits are simply stitched
together from different types and colors of fabric. Lately, the upper
social ranks have tried to adopt this patchwork style, albeit with
little success.

PHYSICIAN OUTFIT (ARTISAN 1D8): The notable feature of this outfit is
the large, vaguely bird-shaped mask used during surgery; the beak of
this mask contains herbs and cloth meant to filter out diseases. Most
physician outfits start out white in color, but quickly become stained
with crimson.

PRIEST OUTFIT (ARTISAN 1D8): The traditional dress of Asrian clergy
varies by their rank within the church. Lower-ranking chaplains wear
outfits of brighter, primary colors while those higher in the hierarchy
are allowed additional colors that are darker and more complex.

SCHOLAR’S OUTFIT (ARTISAN 1D8): Students and instructors at
universities, seminaries, officer schools, and other institutions of
higher learning are expected to dress in traditional scholarly robes
while teaching or attending classes. Outside of class, of course,
they’re free to wear whatever they want.

SWASHBUCKLER OUTFIT (SOLDIER 1D6): The cavalier hat, the billowing cape,
the high boots – anyone wearing this outfit cuts a dashing figure
indeed. While some such outfits are more sedate and refined, many look
as if the wearer stepped out of the latest Alais Neversette novella.

Charmwoven Attire

_introduction needed_

The Nine Laws of Fashion

Charmwoven clothes are useful, stylish, and expensive, but they are also
made according to exacting standards known as Gallinea’s Nine Laws of
Fashion. Flouting these laws could lead to your Charms simply failing to
work at all!

While these are known as “Gallinea’s” Laws, that’s not because they’re
enforced by the Queen’s decree or by some sort of “fashion police” that
stalks the streets of Lutetia. Instead, these are akin to natural Laws
that were first noticed and codified in Gallinea; they simply describe
how things are rather than how they should be.

The First is the simplest Law:

The First Law: The Law of Couture

_“One’s clothes must fit properly.”_

It seems obvious at first – clothing is meant to be worn and to fit
properly! But it’s also the most important. If your clothes aren’t sized
correctly for you, none of the charms will function. In addition, each
off-size article of clothing you wear adds a Drop 1 penalty to combat
actions if it’s too large or too small.

To ensure your clothes are properly sized, you can’t just buy your
clothes off the rack; the people of Gallinea are a diverse group when it
comes to body size, and there are no “standard sizes”. Your clothes will
need to be either be created specifically for you, or altered by a
tailor. Only then can charms be effectively added to such apparel.

The Second Law: The Law of Attunement

_“Charms are unique to the wearer.”_

You can’t just pick up any random charmwoven item and put it on, even if
it fits you. The patterns, glyphs, and trinkets sewn into charmwoven
clothing have to be calibrated for each wearers. This is a pretty simple
process – as long as the charmweaver knows your birth date, birth time,
and place of birth. It usually takes about an hour to attune or reattune
charms to any given person.

What if you don’t know some or any of that information to tell your
charmweaver? There are two options.

First, your charmweaver can attempt to adjust the charms to you anyway,
through trial and error. This takes one hour per piece of information
about your birth that you’re missing. At the end of that process, the
charmweaver makes a simple Magicks (Weave) roll with the opposition pool
based on how much they don’t know, as shown on the following table.

Opposition Pool for Charm Attunement Rolls

  Die   Birth Date             Birth Time            Place of Birth
  ----- ---------------------- --------------------- --------------------------
  D0    Exact date             Time, to the minute   City or village of birth
  D6    Year and month known   Time, to the hour     Province of birth
  D8    Month known            Morning or Night      Country of birth
  D10   Year known             --                    Continent of birth
  D12   Nothing known          Nothing known         Nothing known

The dice pool is based on all of these factors – so if you know the
exact date of your birth, that you know you were born in the morning,
and that you were born somewhere in Talania, that’s an opposition pool
of 1D0+1D8+1D8, or 2D8. As it’s a simple check, the charmweaver needs
just one success point to correctly attune the item. On a failed check,
the charmweaver needs to start over again to attune the item.

The second option involves the use of Magicks (Portents), and for this
reason many charmweavers either work with those who can read omens, or
can do so themselves.

The opposition pool for the Portents roll is the same as the pool
calculated above for the trial-and-error method using the Magicks
(Weave) specialty, but this is a standard roll not a simple roll. It
takes one minute to perform this type of reading, the portent-reader
must see you the entire time, and you must be willing to have it done.
Each success point spent reveals either your birth date, your birth time
to the minute, or your city or village of birth.

The Third Law: The Law of Pertinence

_“The charm must correspond to the article.”_

Simply stated, this means that a charm can only be applied to an item
that has some relationship to the type of enchantment desired.

For example, gloves for soldiers can be given charms that assist with
Dueling or Military (Aim), while gloves for craftsmen can be charmed for
Magicks, Medicine, or Science.

Pertinent skills for any given type of clothing are found later in this
chapter, in the “Articles of Clothing” section. The “Creating Charmwoven
Clothing” section, also found in this chapter, summarizes which types of
charms can be applied to which pieces of attire.

The Fourth Law: The Law of Dissonance

_“Dissonance limits the effectiveness of charms.”_

_description of dissonance needed_

Dissonance

  Dissonance Level   Maximum Charm Die
  ------------------ -------------------
  0                  No limits
  1                  1D12
  2                  1D10
  3                  1D8
  4                  1D6
  5                  1D0
  6 or more          None

The Fifth Law: The Law of Cacophony

_“Unrestrained use of color creates dissonance.”_

_explanation needed_

Dissonance Generated by Cacophony

  Additional Colors   Dissonance
  ------------------- ------------
  1                   +0
  2                   +2
  3                   +3
  4                   +4
  5                   +5
  6 or more           +6

The Sixth Law: The Law of Neutrality

_“Neutral colors do not generate dissonance.”_

_explanation needed_

The Seventh Law: The Law of Darning

_“Rips, tears, and holes produce dissonance.”_

_explanation needed_

Dissonance Generated by Damage

  Unrepaired Rips   Dissonance
  ----------------- ------------
  0                 +0
  1                 +0
  2                 +2
  3                 +3
  4                 +4
  5                 +5
  6 or more         +6

The Eighth Law: The Law of Station

_“Outfits of mismatched attire produce dissonance.”_

_explanation needed_

Mismatched refers to the social rank associated with each item.
Predefined outfits automatically count as a single rank.

Dissonance Generated by Social Rank Mismatch

  Step of Mismatch   Dissonance
  ------------------ ------------
  0                  +0
  1                  +0
  2                  +2
  3                  +3
  4                  +4
  5                  +5
  6 or more          +6

The Ninth Law: The Law of _Dernier Cri_

_“Dated fashions generate dissonance.”_

_explanation needed_

This only applies to items or outfits of social rank 1D10.

Dissonance Generated by Dated Fashions

  Years        Dissonance
  ------------ ------------
  0            +0
  1            +0
  2            +2
  3            +3
  4            +4
  5            +5
  6 or older   +6

Wearing Charmwoven Clothing

_explanation needed_

Wearing Mundane Clothing

_explanation needed_

Articles of Clothing

_introduction needed_

Arm Apparel

_introduction needed_

Arm Apparel

  Item                  Cost   Social Rank   Pertinent Skills
  --------------------- ------ ------------- ----------------------------------
  Gloves, Courtier’s    1D6    D10           Culture, Interaction, Streetwise
  Gloves, Craftsman’s   1D0    D8            Magicks, Medicine, Science
  Gloves, Soldier’s     1D0    D6            Defense, Dueling, Military
  Gloves, Farmer’s      1D0    D0            Nature, Streetwise

_descriptions needed_

Torso Apparel

_introduction needed_

Torso Apparel

  Item              Cost   Social Rank   Pertinent Skills
  ----------------- ------ ------------- --------------------------------------------
  Bodice, Common    1D0    D0            Interaction, Nature, Streetwise
  Bodice, Fine      1D6    D10           Defense, Dueling, Interaction
  Casaque           1D6    D6            Culture, Defense, Dueling, Military
  Doublet, Fine     1D6    D10           Defense, Dueling, Interaction
  Doublet, Common   1D0    D0            Defense, Interaction, Streetwise
  Gown, Courtly     1D10   D10           Culture, Interaction, Observation
  Gown, Surgeon’s   1D6    D8            Interaction, Medicine, Observation
  Robes             1D0    D0            Culture, Interaction, Magicks, Observation
  Shift             1D0    D0            Magicks, Nature, Streetwise
  Smock             1D0    D8            Culture, Magicks, Science
  Vestments         1D6    D8            Culture, Interaction, Magicks, Observation

_descriptions needed_

Foot Apparel

_introduction needed_

Foot Apparel

  Item              Cost   Social Rank   Pertinent Skills
  ----------------- ------ ------------- --------------------------------
  Boots, Military   1D6    D6            Defense, Military, Nature
  Boots, Work       1D6    D0            Military, Nature, Streetwise
  Chopines          1D6    D10           Culture, Interaction
  Pantofles         1D0    D8            Culture, Defense
  Poulaines         1D0    D6            Culture, Interaction, Military
  Sandals           1D0    D0            Nature, Streetwise
  Shoes, Buckled    1D0    D0            Culture, Nature, Streetwise

Head Apparel

Gallineans wear many different kinds of hats, with a type of headwear
available to every type of charm – all the skills, with the exception of
Initiative. The types of hats available are shown in the following
table.

Head Apparel

  Item                  Cost   Social Rank   Pertinent Skills
  --------------------- ------ ------------- -----------------------------------
  Beret, Artisan’s      1D0    D8            Culture, Magicks, Science
  Capotain              1D0    D6            Military, Nature, Streetwise
  Cavalier Hat          1D6    D6            Defense, Dueling, Streetwise
  Goggles, Gearspring   1D6    D8            Military, Observation, Science
  Hair Ribbons          1D0    D10           Culture, Interaction, Magicks
  Masque                1D0    D10           Dueling, Interaction, Streetwise
  Plague Mask           1D6    D8            Medicine, Observation, Science
  Skullcap, Clerical    1D0    D8            Culture, Interaction, Observation
  Tricorne              1D6    D6            Military, Nature, Streetwise

BERET, ARTISAN’S: The simple woolen beret is common among crafters in
Gallinea. You can get a beret in many different colors, although beret
colors have extra significance within Lutetian society. Each craft guild
claims ownership of a particular, exacting shade of blue, green, or red,
and will object strenuously to anyone unaffiliated wearing “their”
colors. To those outside of the Lutetian guilds, the distinctions
between beret colors is almost entirely opaque.

CAPOTAIN: A capotain is a tall hat, usually flat on the top, with a
narrow brim. It originated in Albia and has since spread to Gallinea,
usually worn by the soldiery. Most capotains are black in color, and
many sport buckles in front – although Albian purists claim that such a
frivolity is inauthentic and typical of Gallinea’s love of decoration
for its own sake.

CAVALIER HAT: Made famous by the Queen’s cavaliers but worn throughout
Gallinea, cavalier hats have a wide brim and are usually worn with one
side pinned up. A dyed ostrich feather is often added, both for
appearance’s sake and to allow all-black hats to take a charm. Sometimes
these hats are colloquially referred to as neversettes.

GOGGLES, GEARSPRING: These goggles are created and used by mechanicians
as well as other crafters. Each set of goggles has two or more pairs of
lenses that can be swapped in as necessary – functions include
magnification of small objects, telescopic sighting of distant objects,
filters for specific colors, or simple eye protection. Gearspring
goggles offer a +1D6 Item Die on Observation (Perception) rolls.

HAIR RIBBONS: Magickally charmed hair ribbons are popular with the upper
classes and are woven into the hairstyles – or wigs – of any gender of
noble. Unless affixed to a wig (which must be one of the neutral colors
of argent, brunâtre, cendree, or sable), the ribbons require anywhere
from ten minutes to several hours to weave into hair, or double that
time if forced to don them without the help of a capable household
servant.

MASQUE: Not a bandanna clumsily worn by a common brigand to disguise her
identity, a masque actually does little to hide one’s appearance. Used
by the nobility at their lavish parties, each is custom created to
reflect the wearer’s persona and opinions of herself. Many masques only
encircle the eyes and the space between them, while others cover the
entire face. A Gallinean holiday called the Festival of Masques
celebrates freedoms, including sexual freedoms, and is a time when
nobles and non-nobles alike don masques to participate in the revelry.

PLAGUE MASK: Part of a chirurgeon’s standard surgical wear, a plague
mask is usually styled like a bird’s long beak, although other examples
exist, such as long tusks or simply a cylinder. Goggles built into the
mask provide covering for the chirurgeon’s eyes, while medicinal herbs
and complex filters in the “nose” cavity prevent infection of
air-carried diseases.

SKULLCAP, CLERICAL: Sometimes called calottes, these skullcaps are
associated with the Asrian religion and worn by its chaplains.
Lower-ranking priests of Eserre wear celeste, azure, vert, or brunâtre
skullcaps, while those higher in the order cover their skulls with
calottes of argent, carnation, or purpure. Only those clergy appointed
as Guardians of the Faith are allowed to wear Or skullcaps, with the
golden yellow color symbolizing their connection to the sun goddess. Lay
workers within the church are free to wear sable or cendree calottes
while performing church duties.

TRICORNE: These felt hats have wide brims like cavalier hats, but are
pinned up on the sides and backs, forming them into triangular shapes.
In Gallinea and Albia it’s traditional to wear the tricorne with the
single point facing forward, and in Ekalia and Dragosa to wear it
pointing back. Tricornes are most popular among sailors and members of
the military, with officers using them to display medals and other
symbols of rank.

Shoulder Apparel

Shoulder charms tend to be about skills that are flashy and
attention-getting, although a few have use in disguising or hiding the
wearer.

Shoulder Apparel

  Item                Cost   Social Rank   Pertinent Skills
  ------------------- ------ ------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Cape, Cloth         1D0    D6            Defense, Dueling, Interaction, Streetwise
  Cape, Fur           1D8    D8            Culture, Dueling, Interaction, Magicks
  Cloak               1D0    D0            Defense, Dueling, Magicks, Nature, Streetwise
  Stole, Liturgical   1D0    D8            Culture, Interaction, Magicks
  Stole, Ornate       1D8    D10           Culture, Interaction, Streetwise
  Tabard              1D6    D6            Defense, Dueling, Interaction, Military

_descriptions needed_

Standard Outfits

_introduction needed_

standard Outfits

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Item           Cost   Social   Includes
                        Rank     
  -------------- ------ -------- -----------------------------------------------
  Clockworker    2D6    D8       Gearspring goggles, smock, breeches,
  Outfit                         craftsman’s gloves, pantofles

  Corsair Outfit 4D6    D6       Tricorne, doublet, soldier’s gloves,
                                 pantaloons, boots

  Courtly Outfit 3D6    D10      Hair ribbons, bodice, courtier’s gloves, skirt,
                                 chopines

  Crafter Outfit 2D6    D8       Artisan’s beret, smock, breeches, craftsman’s
                                 gloves, buckled shoes

  Military       2D6    D6       Capotain, soldier’s gloves, breeches, boots,
  Outfit                         tabard

  Peasant Outfit 1D6    D0       Shift, breeches, buckled shoes

  Physician      3D6    D8       Plague mask, surgeon’s gown, breeches,
  Outfit                         pantofles

  Priest Outfit  2D6    D8       Clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier’s
                                 gloves, breeches, pantofles

  Swashbuckler   4D6    D6       Cav alier hat, doublet, soldier’s gloves,
  Outfit                         breeches, boots, cape
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_descriptions needed_

Creating Charmwoven Clothing

_introduction needed_

Pertinence

_introduction needed_

Culture

_introduction needed_

Culture Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- --------------------------------------------------
  Arm        Courtier’s gloves
  Torso      Casaque, courtly gown, robes, smock, vestments
  Foot       Chopines, pantofles, poulaines, buckled shoes
  Head       Artisan’s beret, hair ribbons, clerical skullcap
  Shoulder   Fur cape, liturgical stole, ornate stole

Defense

_introduction needed_

Defense Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- --------------------------------
  Arm        Soldier’s gloves
  Torso      Bodice, casaque, doublet
  Foot       Military boots, pantofles
  Head       Cavalier hat
  Shoulder   Cloth cape, cloak, tabard

Dueling

_introduction needed_

Dueling Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- -------------------------------------
  Arm        Soldier’s gloves
  Torso      Bodice, casaque, doublet
  Foot       --
  Head       Cavalier hat, masque
  Shoulder   Cloth cape, fur cape, cloak, tabard

Initiative

_introduction needed_

Initiative Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- --------------------------------
  Arm        --
  Torso      --
  Foot       --
  Head       --
  Shoulder   --

Interaction

_introduction needed_

Interaction Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Arm        Courtier’s gloves
  Torso      Bodice, doublet, courtly gown, surgeon’s gown, robes, vestments
  Foot       Chopines, poulaines
  Head       Hair ribbons, masque, clerical skullcap
  Shoulder   Cloth cape, fur cape, liturgical stole, ornate stole, tabard

Magicks

_introduction needed_

Magicks Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- --------------------------------
  Arm        Craftsman’s gloves
  Torso      Robes, smock, vestments
  Foot       --
  Head       Artisan’s beret, hair ribbons
  Shoulder   Fur cape, liturgical stole

Medicine

_introduction needed_

Medicine Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- --------------------------------
  Arm        Craftsman’s gloves
  Torso      Surgeon’s gown
  Foot       --
  Head       Plague mask
  Shoulder   --

Military

_introduction needed_

Military Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- ----------------------------------------
  Arm        Soldier’s gloves
  Torso      Casaque
  Foot       Military boots, poutaines
  Head       Capotain, gearspring goggles, tricorne
  Shoulder   Tabard

Nature

_introduction needed_

Nature Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- ----------------------------------------
  Arm        Farmer’s gloves
  Torso      Shift
  Foot       Military boots, sandals, buckled shoes
  Head       Capotain, tricorne
  Shoulder   Cloak

Observation

_introduction needed_

Observation Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- ----------------------------------------------------
  Arm        --
  Torso      Courtly gown, surgeon’s gown, robes, vestments
  Foot       --
  Head       Gearspring goggles, plague mask, clerical skullcap
  Shoulder   --

Science

_introduction needed_

Science Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- --------------------------------------------------
  Arm        Craftsman’s gloves
  Torso      Smock
  Foot       --
  Head       Artisan’s beret, gearspring goggles, plague mask
  Shoulder   --

Streetwise

Articles that can take streetwise charms are a varied set, ranging from
the peasant’s cloth cape to the noble’s ornate stole.

Streetwise Pertinence

  Category   Pertinent Articles of Clothing
  ---------- ------------------------------------------
  Arm        Courtier’s gloves
  Torso      Bodice, doublet, shift
  Foot       Sandals, buckled shoes
  Head       Capotain, cavalier hat, masque, tricorne
  Shoulder   Cloth cape, cloak, ornate stole

Colors

_introduction needed_

Neutral Colors

_introduction needed_ Neutral Colors

  Color      Description
  ---------- -----------------
  Argent     Silver or white
  Brunâtre   Brown
  Cendrée    Grey
  Sable      Black

Verve Colors

_introduction needed_ Verve Colors

              | |
Color | Description |
————- | ————— |
Argent (only) | Silver or white |
Azure | Blue |
Gules | Red |
Or | Yellow |

Affinity Colors

_introduction needed_

Affinity Colors

  Color             Description
  ----------------- -------------
  Amaranth          Magenta
  Bleu-Céleste      Sky blue
  Brunâtre (only)   Brown
  Carnation         Pink
  Cendrée (only)    Grey
  Vert              Green

Guile Colors

_introduction needed_

Guile Colors

  Purpure        Purple
  -------------- ----------
  Sable (only)   Black
  Sanguine       Dark red
  Tenné          Orange

_introduction needed_

AMARANTH: This is a violet-red color, close to a magenta. It is an
Affinity color.

ARGENT: Argent is both the color white and the color silver. When used
in combination, it’s considered a neutral color; used by itself, it’s a
Verve color.

AZURE: A medium shade of blue, azure is a Verve color.

BLEU-CÉLESTE: The light blue shade of a clear sky, bleu-céleste is not
as dark as azure.

BRUNÂTRE: Brown, or brunâtre, is an Affinity color. If used in
combination with another color, it’s considered a neutral color.

CARNATION: An Affinity color, carnation is a softer pink color, often a
lighter shade of Amaranth.

CENDRÉE: Named for the dark grey of cinders, cendrée is an Affinity
color when used by itself, or a neutral color when used in combination
with another color.

GULES: Gules, a medium shade of red, is a Verve color.

OR: _Or_ represents yellow or gold. It is a Verve color.

PURPURE: This is a dark purple color and is a Guile color.

SABLE: Items that are entirely black are considered sable, a Guile
color. If combined with another color, then the black becomes a neutral
color.

SANGUINE: Dark red, the color of blood, is a Guile color.

TENNÉ: This is a dark shade of orange, and is a Guile color.

VERT: The color of forest vegetation, vert is an Affinity color.

Charmweaving Colors

  Color Name   Description       Attribute
  ------------ ----------------- --------------------
  Amaranth     Violet red        Affinity
  Argent       White or silver   Verve (or Neutral)
  Azure        Blue              Verve
  Brunâtre     Dark brown        Guile (or Neutral)
  Carnation    Pink              Affinity
  Celeste      Light blue        Affinity
  Cendree      Gray              Guile (or Neutral)
  Gules        Red               Verve
  Murrey       Burgundy          Affinity
  Or           Gold or yellow    Verve
  Purpure      Purple            Guile
  Sable        Black             Guile (or Neutral)
  Sanguine     Dark red          Guile
  Tenné        Orange or tan     Affinity
  Vert         Green             Affinity

Living Expenses

Characters in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_ are assumed to have their housing
and daily nutritional needs met by their Social Rank scores without
having to make Wealth rolls or spend Rewards for normal daily living.
Only unusual expenses, such as a night on the town or an inn stay in a
distant city, need to be paid for separately.

The costs below are fairly standardized across Gallinea, although it’s
only the larger towns and cities that have the best food, inns, and
alcohol. As a package, one night’s stay for a character and her horse in
an inn with an attached tavern will cost 4D0 for the cheapest room and
food, 3D6+1D0 for good quality, and 3D8+1D0 for the most exquisite food,
drink, and suite.

Characters who go carousing and buy rounds on the house can use the
price of the most expensive alcohol bought as an Item die on their
Streetwise (Carouse) rolls.

Living Expenses

  Service Requested                        Cost
  --------------------------------------- ------
  Drinks for one night, good               1D6
  Drinks for one night, private reserve    1D8
  Drinks for one night, watered down       1D0
  Lodging for one night, cheap             1D0
  Lodging for one night, good              1D6
  Lodging for one night, sumptuous         1D8
  Lodging for one week, cheap              1D6
  Lodging for one week, good               1D8
  Lodging for one week, sumptuous          1D10
  Meals for one day, bland                 1D0
  Meals for one day, good                  1D6
  Meals for one day, gourmet               1D8
  Round on the house, good                 1D8
  Round on the house, private reserve      1D10
  Round on the house, watered down         1D6
  Stabling for one night                   1D0
  Stabling for one week                    1D6

DRINKS, GOOD: _description needed_

DRINKS, PRIVATE RESERVE: _description needed_

DRINKS, WATERED DOWN: _description needed_

LODGING, CHEAP: _description needed_

LODGING, GOOD: _description needed_

LODGING, SUMPTUOUS: _description needed_

MEALS, BLAND: _description needed_

MEALS, GOOD: _description needed_

MEALS, GOURMET: _description needed_

ROUND ON THE HOUSE: _description needed_

STABLING: _description needed_

Miscellaneous Gear

_introduction needed_

Transportation and Animals

_introduction needed_

Each Gallinean league is equal to approximately 2 miles. An average
person on foot can walk 1 to 2 leagues per hour.

Vehicles

_introduction needed_

Vehicles

     Vehicle      Cost   Walk Speed   Run Speed  Overland Speed
  -------------- ------ ------------ ----------- ---------------------
     Airship      4D12       –         3 Areas   10 leagues per hour
     Carriage     1D8      1 Area      2 Areas   3 leagues per hour
       Cart       1D0      1 Area      2 Areas   3 leagues per hour
     Gondola      2D6      1 Area      2 Areas   2 leagues per hour
    Narrowboat    2D8        –         1 Area    1 league per hour
   River Barge    1D8        –         1 Area    1 league per hour
     Rowboat      1D6      1 Area      2 Areas   2 leagues per hour
   Sailing Ship   2D12       –         2 Areas   6 leagues per hour
    Velocipede    1D8      1 Area      3 Areas   3 leagues per hour
      Wagon       1D6      1 Area      2 Areas   3 leagues per hour

AIRSHIP: _description needed_ Actual speed will vary depending on wind
and weather conditions.

CARRIAGE: _description needed_ Carriage and wagon speed is limited by
the speed of the horses, and is reduced if going off of roads.

CART: _description needed_

GONDOLA: _description needed_ river

NARROWBOAT: _description needed_ river

RIVER BARGE: _description needed_ river

ROWBOAT: _description needed_ river

SAILING SHIP: _descripton needed_ Actual speed will vary depending on
wind and weather conditions.

VELOCIPEDE: _description needed_

WAGON: _description needed_ Carriage and wagon speed is limited by the
speed of the horses, and is reduced if going off of roads.

Mounts

_introduction needed_

Mounts

  Mount           Cost   Walk Speed   Run Speed  Overland Speed       Item Die
  -------------- ------ ------------ ----------- -------------------- ----------------
  Draft Horse     1D6      1 Area      2 Areas   2 leagues per hour   Husbandry +1D6
  Riding Horse    1D8     2 Areas      3 Areas   6 leagues per hour   Cavalry +1D6
  Warhorse        1D10    1 Areas      3 Areas   4 leagues per hour   Cavalry +1D10

DRAFT HORSE: _description needed_

RIDING HORSE: _description needed_

WARHORSE: _description needed_

Horse Accessories

_introduction needed_

Pets and Farm Animals

_introduction needed_

DOMESTICATED: _description needed_

Pets and Farm Animals

  Animal               Cost  Example(s)
  ------------------- ------ ------------------------------------
  Beast of burden      1D6   Ox, mule
  Bird, messenger      1D6   Messenger parrot
  Bird, song           1D0   Canary, dove
  Cat, common          1D0   Housecat, alley cat
  Cat, purebred        1D6   Beryllian, Serican longhair
  Dog, companion       1D6   Elaran toy spaniel
  Dog, guard           1D6   Dogue de Boussole
  Dog, herding         1D6   Corderan sheepdog
  Dog, hunting         1D6   Lowlands basset, Gallinean caniche
  Dog, mongrel         1D0   Small, ordinary mutt
  Fowl, barnyard       1D0   Chicken, goose
  Livestock, dairy     1D6   Cow, goat
  Livestock, meat      1D6   Pig, sheep
  Livestock, wool      1D6   Sheep, goat
  Raptor, trained      1D8   Falcon
  Raptor, untrained    1D6   Owl, crow
  Reptile, small       1D0   Snake, box turtle
  Rodent               1D0   Mouse, rat
  Rabbit               1D0   Bunny, hare

BEAST OF BURDEN (DOMESTICATED): These are strong animals used for
pulling plows, pulling wagons, and other farming chores. They have an
Item Die of Husbandry +1D6 when used for this purpose.

BIRD, MESSENGER (DOMESTICATED): _description needed_

BIRD, SONG: _description needed_

CAT, COMMON: _description needed_

CAT, PUREBRED: _description needed_

DOG, COMPANION (DOMESTICATED): _description needed_

DOG, GUARD (DOMESTICATED): _description needed_

DOG, HERDING (DOMESTICATED): _description needed_

DOG, MONGREL (DOMESTICATED): _description needed_

FOWL, BARNYARD: _description needed_

LIVESTOCK, DAIRY: _description needed_

LIVESTOCK, MEAT: _description needed_

LIVESTOCK, WOOL: _description needed_

RAPTOR, TRAINED (DOMESTICATED): _description needed_

RAPTOR, UNTRAINED: _description needed_

REPTILE: _description needed_

RODENTS AND RABBITS: _description needed_


Gallinean Culture

Gallinean Holidays

Asrian Holy Days

The sixth day of every month is the first Sun Day of that month, and is
when most Asrian holy days celebrate the sun goddess Eserre. Devout
Gallineans are expected to attend church on those days, even if they
don’t manage to make it to services on any other Sun Day in a month.

6 Nivôse is celebrated as Winter’s Dawn, and is considered the official
start of the winter season. Services in the Asrian churches ask for the
blessings of the Goddess-Empress Eserre upon the faithful, and ask for a
gentle winter.

The winter solstice occurs on 6 Pluviôse, marking the midpoint of winter
and the time in which Eserre’s sun is out for the least amount of time.
Gallineans mark this date, and the two days around it, with the Winter’s
Noon Festival – a time to come together and share warmth, food, and
stories, in addition to religious services.

The 6th of Ventôse is the third holy day of winter in the Asrian faith,
and is known as Winter’s Dusk. Heading out of the coldest part of the
year toward the spring thaw, the Chaplains of Eserre ask for a
prosperous growing season. Tradition says that if a sun jay sees its
shadow at noon on Winter’s Dusk, winter weather will continue into
Germinal, the next month. The Chaplains in Lutetia raise sun jays
specifically for this purpose.

Spring’s Dawn, on 6 Germinal, is a day of thanks for the end of winter
and start of spring, with churches and worshipers alike decorated with
flowers. The 6th of Floréal is Spring’s Noon, the vernal equinox, and is
marked by outdoor festivals and dances around spring poles. Spring’s
Dusk on 6 Prairial is holy day of peace, when even the most brutal of
Elara’s armies will refrain from war.

Confirmation Day, 18 Prairial, commemorates the mythological wedding of
Eserre to her beloved Safira, the first Bride of the Sun. On this day
each year, young teenagers publicly present themselves as faithful
followers of the Sun Goddess and are henceforth considered as adults by
the Church.

On 6 Messidor, Summer’s Dawn, the Asrian high holy months officially
begin, lasting until Summer’s Dusk, 6 Fructidor. The legends of Eserre
and the Qartan Empire are read or re-enacted over the course of eight
consecutive Sun Days, save for 6 Fervidor, the holiest day of the year.
On that longest day of the year, and the days before and after it, known
as Summer’s Noon, the most lavish celebrations are held under the midday
sun. The most non-pious Gallineans will make a point to attend these
midsummer services, even if they will never enter a church or cathedral
the rest of the year.

The fall holy days of Autumn’s Dawn (6 Vendémiaire), Autumn’s Noon (6
Brumaire), and Autumn’s Dusk (6 Frimaire) are quieter affairs, devoted
to teaching, sermons, and service as the year winds down, the crops are
harvested, and the worshipers of the Sun Goddess prepare for winter.

New Moon Festivals

In addition to Asrian religious holy days, Gallineans also celebrate
ancient traditions associated with the Old Faith of the witches. These
folk holidays occur on new moons, in the evening when the sky is dark.
Most involve sharing of gifts and meals with family and close friends.

The New Hunger Moon, 16 Nivôse, is a time for giving food to those in
need in the chill of winter. 16 Pluviôse, the New Wolf Moon, is marked
by the exchange of furs and warm clothing. New Snow Moon, on 16 Ventôse,
is a celebration marked by wine and other types of alcohol that have
been saved in the snow all winter.

The New Sap Moon, on 16 Germinal, celebrates the start of spring with
traditional meals of maple syrups served on crêpes. 16 Floréal is the
New Rain Moon, and gifts of boots and jackets are common as the spring
rains begin. On 16 Prairial, the New Wishing Moon is celebrated with
exchanges of lucky trinkets and wishes kept in secret.

The 16th of Messidor, the New Berry Moon, marks the beginning of summer
with sweet pies, tarts, and pastries. The New Kissing Moon, on 16
Fervidor, is a night for lovers to spend in each others’ arms under the
stars, and is said to be the reason that there are more births than
normal in Floréal nine months later. The final folk celebration of the
summer, New Peddler’s Moon, is celebrated through the exchange of
hand-made gifts given as part of a mock barter system.

The first of the fall festivals, the New Harvest Moon on 16 Vendémiaire,
is a night of bonfires, music, and dancing. The New Huntress Moon, 16
Brumaire, is marked by large dinners of game meats such as venison,
rabbit, or pheasant. On the night of 16 Frimaire, the New Mourning Moon,
Gallineans remember their dead friends and relatives, especially those
who have passed within the last year, through guising or mumming.

Devran Holy Days

The Devrans have their own holy days when the moon is a crescent in the
sky. The 13th of each month is known as Last Crescent, and the 19th of
each month is the First Crescent. Ceremonies are held on both nights,
and many Devrans fast nightly during the week between the two holy days.

National Holidays

Gallinea’s national holidays are secular in nature and recognize
important events in the history of the queendom.

Treaty Day, also known as Betrothal Day, is the anniversary of the
signing of the Treaty of Scanbreille on 21 Nivôse 1241 – ending the war
between Albia and Gallinea through the later marriage of Prince Carolus
to Princess Mariana, the future Queen Mariana II. The 16th day of
Floréal, also called Espousal Day, is the anniversary of the wedding of
Carolus and Mariana in 1242.

Scanbrian Unification Day, 15 Pluviôse, commemorates the date in 989
when Scanbria became unified with Gallinea. Scanbrians also celebrate 30
Fructidor, Scanbrian Independence Day, which marks the date in 986 when
Scanbria declared its independence from Varendia. Many older Scanbrian
families still resent that the Grand Duchy of Scanbria lasted for only
three years before being annexed by the Gallineans, and the day is
usually one for political agitation. Needless to say, Scanbrian
Independence Day is not celebrated in the rest of Gallinea.

Victory Day, on 7 Prairial, marks the defeat of Varendia in 1123 by
future princess-consort Clarisse Sudelune, also known as La Dame de la
Victoire. The day is celebrated by military parades along the Rue du
Couer, both in Lutetia and elsewhere in Gallinea.

The Festival of Masques is held on 24 Prairial every year, and is an
annual celebration of freedom in Lutetia centered around lavish
masquerade balls, street parties, and excessive drinking. Anyone caught
outside of their home without a disguise is “arrested” and taken to the
nearest constable, who forces them to wear a cheap and embarrassing
costume. The Festival of Masques is also a time for much intrigue and
illicit affairs, as no one is whom they seem to be.

One of the largest civic holidays is the birthday of the queen. As the
current queen, Mariana’s birth is celebrated every 19 Fructidor. The
birthday of her mother, the late Queen Elisse II, used to be celebrated
on 21 Floréal but is no longer an official holiday. Some members of the
nobility, who strongly opposed Elisse’s policies when she lived,
celebrate only her birthday to insult the current queen.

The deaths of Queen Elisse and her daughter, crown princess Jehanne, are
remembered by solemn ceremonies on 22 Frimaire, as they have been every
year since that dark day in 1243.

30 Nivôse and 1 Pluviôse, the end of one year and the start of the next,
are secular holidays celebrated as Year’s Dusk and Year’s Dawn. These
are usually quiet days of reflection on the events of the previous
twelve months and a time to make plans for the upcoming year.

Gender, Sexuality, and Race

In general, Gallinea is a diverse nation, full of people of all genders,
sexualities, and races. While that mostly holds true upon closer
examination, the Land of the Ascendant Pegasus does still retain some
inequalities based on old traditions and biases.

Gender

Gallinean custom has long held the primacy of women within society –
after all, the traditionalists argue, it is women who maintain the
stability of culture. The identity of one’s other parent may be in
doubt, but there’s never a question about who gave birth to a child.
Thus, inheritance passes along matrilineal lines and thus concentrating
wealth and societal power among women.

This rule still holds true for most nobles – and continues to be an
expectation of the Royalty – but has lost popularity among those in the
lower social classes.

Queen Delphine, great-grandmother of current queen Mariana, decreed in
1172 PQ that inheritance within Gallinea would pass to the oldest child
regardless of gender – and as much as this pleased the commoners, it
enraged the nobility to the same extent. Two years later, in 1174 PQ,
she rescinded that decree and replaced it with a rule that each family
could designate either the oldest daughter or oldest son as inheritor.
Most nobles stuck to the old ways, however, and named daughters as
heirs.

Delphine’s granddaughter, Queen Elisse III, expanded the decree in 1240
to allow any child to be named as an heir, regardless of birth order or
gender, as part of her Elissian Reforms. After Elisse’s assassination,
her husband (as prince-regent) and her daughter Queen Mariana maintained
the Reforms enacted by Elisse before her death, but haven’t yet enacted
the further reforms desired by the late queen.

Besides inheritance, other forms of gender discrimination have likewise
been banned since Delphine’s reign, but most positions of authority and
responsibility within Gallinean higher society are still held by women.

Traditional Asrian theology holds that the First Prohibition, “Let no
man be superior to a woman,” defines a role for a woman as the head of a
family, head of a country, and head of a business, but modern
interpretations over the last millennium have taken this to be a call
for gender-neutrality and lack of gender-based oppression.

The Asrian Church has thus become a bastion of gender equality, although
with persistent trappings of matriarchy – Eserre is viewed as a sun
goddess as opposed to a gender-neutral deity, for example. The Church is
headed by the Bride of the Sun and her Handmaidens, which are ceremonial
positions that are treated as female for liturgical purposes, regardless
of the gender of the occupant of the office.

Within Gallinean politics, the Church takes a middle line between the
beliefs of the Monarchy and the nobility, not quite willing to fully
endorse the Elissian Reforms but nonetheless prompting for greater
equality of gender within Asrian culture.

With the increased acceptance of gender equality has also come greater
acceptance of those who don’t fall into a binary gender assigned to them
at birth. Gender roles have become understood as a question of
self-identification, including people who exist outside of a strict
binary as well as those who are comfortable within it.

Female and male identities are considered legitimate regardless of birth
assignment. Legal recognition of gender is not required for all but
those in the higher tiers of society, and the procedure itself is a
relatively simple procedure before a or a royal bailiff or a provincial
prévôt. Petitioners receive a decree in the name of the queen or the
nobility of the province, recognizing their gender for all purposes.

The Elissian Decrees went further than that, and legally recognized all
variations of gender identity – from those without gender at all to
those who combine either binary gender in ways unique to that
individual. This codified a long-standing practice among the lower and
middle classes of affirming the genders of everyone, not just those
within a strict binary.

The Gallinean language is a relatively genderless tongue that does not
require that a grammatical gender be assigned to every noun, verb, or
pronoun. However, as with most Qartan-descended languages, many
traditional names for occupations, noble titles, place of origin, and so
on, are expressed in female terminology. Older Gallineans consider these
terms to be gender-neutral by default, but younger speakers of the
language are moving toward more inclusive speech.

“She” is the default pronoun for a person of unspecified gender within
classical Gallinean, but there has been some progress made toward using
“they” as gender-neutral as well. “Iel/iem/ier/iels/ielself”, a set of
non-binary pronouns used in some classical writings, has made a recent
resurgence and is used within the texts of the Elissian Reforms.

While physiological alterations are never required of those asserting
their gender within Gallinean society – for legal or for social purposes
– many such individuals desire changes to their bodies to better match
their self-image. Long-known alchemical formulations can provide the
equivalent of hormone replacement to those who wish it, and a number of
medical procedures exist that can provide further changes to bring one’s
body into conformance with their stated gender.

(Sidebar) Gender Terminology

Clarissic. An adjective describing someone whose gender is not that
assigned at birth. A reference to Clarisse Sudelune, a former soldier,
Maréchale Général de Gallinea, princess-consort, and princess-regent in
the 12th century PQ.

Female. An adjective describing someone who is a woman.

Male. An adjective describing someone who is a man.

Man. Someone who is male.

Maverique (adj). An adjective describing someone who has a gender which
is not male, female, or a combination of those.

Maverique (n). Someone whose gender is maverique (adj).

Neutrois. An adjective describing someone who does not have a gender.

Person. Someone who is of any gender.

Perybrean. An adjective describing someone whose gender is a combination
of male and female, with that combination either being fixed or fluid
over time. Named after the Ekalian twin deities Peryon and Sybrea who
are to be reflections of each other or possibly the same god.

Woman. Someone who is female.

Sexuality

The concept of “homosexuality” and “heterosexuality” as distinct sexual
orientations is unknown within Gallinean society. Society, overall, is
bisexual and one’s preference for specific genders is considered a
personal matter. No one cares whether this is an inborn preference or a
matter of choice; you love who you love, and that’s what matters.

The second Profession of Asrianism states that love is a gift from
Eserre herself, and the Books of the Sun encourage all to love as freely
as you wish, love as deeply as you wish, and love whomever you wish.
Eserre herself is depicted as married to a woman, the first Bride of the
Sun, and thus all subsequent leaders of the Asrian church have been
considered liturgically female.

Marriage or partnership within Gallinean culture can be between a woman
and a man, a woman and a woman, a man and a man, and recently, between
any one person and another regardless of gender or lack thereof.
Monogamy is expected among Asrian Gallineans, although monoamory is a
matter left up to the people in the relationship. Thus, you can only be
married to one person, but it a mutual decision between the two of you
whether it is an open relationship or a closed one.

The term “marriage” is reserved for those couples united in a religious
ceremony; otherwise it is called a “partnership”. Terms such as “wife”,
“husband”, “spouse”, or “partner”, are not restricted to one type of
union; as with many other decisions this is made by each couple as they
choose. Gallineans consider all terms to refer to the same concept,
although classical Gallinean traditionally calls male spouses “husbands”
and female spouses “wives.”

In recent years, greater acceptance has been made of those who are not
sexually attracted at all. Previously, asexual people were thought of as
being eccentric, of being damaged in some way, or as just not having
found the right person yet. One decree in the Elissian Reforms
establishes full legal equality, including inheritance rights, to people
who are asexual.

(Sidebar) Sexuality Terminology

Jathyc. An adjective describing a sexual or romantic relationship
between two men, named after the Ekalian deity Jathys, god of
craftsmanship and commerce.

Outré. An archaic adjective describing a man who is exclusively
attracted to women, or a woman who is exclusively attracted to men.
Often considered offensive.

Reian (adj). A recently-coined adjective describing someone who does not
feel sexual attraction, or sometimes, romantic attraction. Named after
the Ekalian deity Reios, god of politics and the underworld.

Reian (n). Someone whose sexuality is reian.

Sapphique. An adjective describing a sexual or romantic relationship
between two women, named after Safira, the first Bride of the Sun
according to Asrian theology.

There are no particular terms for being a bisexual person, a lesbian, or
a gay man in Gallinean. Such concepts don’t exist in Elaran cultures.

Race

Gender, Sexuality, and Race

In general, Gallinea is a diverse nation, full of people of all genders,
sexualities, and races. While that mostly holds true upon closer
examination, the Land of the Ascendant Pegasus does still retain some
inequalities based on old traditions and biases.

Gender

Gallinean custom has long held the primacy of women within society –
after all, the traditionalists argue, it is women who maintain the
stability of culture. The identity of one’s other parent may be in
doubt, but there’s never a question about who gave birth to a child.
Thus, inheritance passes along matrilineal lines and thus concentrating
wealth and societal power among women.

This rule still holds true for most nobles – and continues to be an
expectation of the Royalty – but has lost popularity among those in the
lower social classes.

Queen Delphine, great-grandmother of current queen Mariana, decreed in
1172 PQ that inheritance within Gallinea would pass to the oldest child
regardless of gender – and as much as this pleased the commoners, it
enraged the nobility to the same extent. Two years later, in 1174 PQ,
she rescinded that decree and replaced it with a rule that each family
could designate either the oldest daughter or oldest son as inheritor.
Most nobles stuck to the old ways, however, and named daughters as
heirs.

Delphine’s granddaughter, Queen Elisse III, expanded the decree in 1240
to allow any child to be named as an heir, regardless of birth order or
gender, as part of her Elissian Reforms. After Elisse’s assassination,
her husband (as prince-regent) and her daughter Queen Mariana maintained
the Reforms enacted by Elisse before her death, but haven’t yet enacted
the further reforms desired by the late queen.

Besides inheritance, other forms of gender discrimination have likewise
been banned since Delphine’s reign, but most positions of authority and
responsibility within Gallinean higher society are still held by women.

Traditional Asrian theology holds that the First Prohibition, “Let no
man be superior to a woman,” defines a role for a woman as the head of a
family, head of a country, and head of a business, but modern
interpretations over the last millennium have taken this to be a call
for gender-neutrality and lack of gender-based oppression.

The Asrian Church has thus become a bastion of gender equality, although
with persistent trappings of matriarchy – Eserre is viewed as a sun
goddess as opposed to a gender-neutral deity, for example. The Church is
headed by the Bride of the Sun and her Handmaidens, which are ceremonial
positions that are treated as female for liturgical purposes, regardless
of the gender of the occupant of the office.

Within Gallinean politics, the Church takes a middle line between the
beliefs of the Monarchy and the nobility, not quite willing to fully
endorse the Elissian Reforms but nonetheless prompting for greater
equality of gender within Asrian culture.

With the increased acceptance of gender equality has also come greater
acceptance of those who don’t fall into a binary gender assigned to them
at birth. Gender roles have become understood as a question of
self-identification, including people who exist outside of a strict
binary as well as those who are comfortable within it.

Female and male identities are considered legitimate regardless of birth
assignment. Legal recognition of gender is not required for all but
those in the higher tiers of society, and the procedure itself is a
relatively simple procedure before a or a royal bailiff or a provincial
prévôt. Petitioners receive a decree in the name of the queen or the
nobility of the province, recognizing their gender for all purposes.

The Elissian Decrees went further than that, and legally recognized all
variations of gender identity – from those without gender at all to
those who combine either binary gender in ways unique to that
individual. This codified a long-standing practice among the lower and
middle classes of affirming the genders of everyone, not just those
within a strict binary.

The Gallinean language is a relatively genderless tongue that does not
require that a grammatical gender be assigned to every noun, verb, or
pronoun. However, as with most Qartan-descended languages, many
traditional names for occupations, noble titles, place of origin, and so
on, are expressed in female terminology. Older Gallineans consider these
terms to be gender-neutral by default, but younger speakers of the
language are moving toward more inclusive speech.

“She” is the default pronoun for a person of unspecified gender within
classical Gallinean, but there has been some progress made toward using
“they” as gender-neutral as well. “Iel/iem/ier/iels/ielself”, a set of
non-binary pronouns used in some classical writings, has made a recent
resurgence and is used within the texts of the Elissian Reforms.

While physiological alterations are never required of those asserting
their gender within Gallinean society – for legal or for social purposes
– many such individuals desire changes to their bodies to better match
their self-image. Long-known alchemical formulations can provide the
equivalent of hormone replacement to those who wish it, and a number of
medical procedures exist that can provide further changes to bring one’s
body into conformance with their stated gender.

(Sidebar) Gender Terminology

-   CLARISSIC: An adjective describing someone whose gender is not that
    assigned at birth. A reference to Clarisse Sudelune, a former
    soldier, Maréchale Général de Gallinea, princess-consort, and
    princess-regent in the 12th century PQ.
-   FEMALE: An adjective describing someone who is a woman.
-   MALE: An adjective describing someone who is a man.
-   MAN: Someone who is male.
-   MAVERIQUE (ADJ): An adjective describing someone who has a gender
    which is not male, female, or a combination of those.
-   MAVERIQUE (N): Someone whose gender is _maverique (adj)_.
-   NEUTROIS: An adjective describing someone who does not have a
    gender.
-   PERSON: Someone who is of any gender.
-   PERYBREAN: An adjective describing someone whose gender is a
    combination of male and female, with that combination either being
    fixed or fluid over time. Named after the Ekalian twin deities
    Peryon and Sybrea who are to be reflections of each other or
    possibly the same god.
-   WOMAN: Someone who is female.

Sexuality

The concept of “homosexuality” and “heterosexuality” as distinct sexual
orientations is unknown within Gallinean society. Society, overall, is
bisexual and one’s preference for specific genders is considered a
personal matter. No one cares whether this is an inborn preference or a
matter of choice; you love who you love, and that’s what matters.

The second Profession of Asrianism states that love is a gift from
Eserre herself, and the Books of the Sun encourage all to love as freely
as you wish, love as deeply as you wish, and love whomever you wish.
Eserre herself is depicted as married to a woman, the first Bride of the
Sun, and thus all subsequent leaders of the Asrian church have been
considered liturgically female.

Marriage or partnership within Gallinean culture can be between a woman
and a man, a woman and a woman, a man and a man, and recently, between
any one person and another regardless of gender or lack thereof.
Monogamy is expected among Asrian Gallineans, although monoamory is a
matter left up to the people in the relationship. Thus, you can only be
married to one person, but it a mutual decision between the two of you
whether it is an open relationship or a closed one.

The term “marriage” is reserved for those couples united in a religious
ceremony; otherwise it is called a “partnership”. Terms such as “wife”,
“husband”, “spouse”, or “partner”, are not restricted to one type of
union; as with many other decisions this is made by each couple as they
choose. Gallineans consider all terms to refer to the same concept,
although classical Gallinean traditionally calls male spouses “husbands”
and female spouses “wives.”

In recent years, greater acceptance has been made of those who are not
sexually attracted at all. Previously, asexual people were thought of as
being eccentric, of being damaged in some way, or as just not having
found the right person yet. One decree in the Elissian Reforms
establishes full legal equality, including inheritance rights, to people
who are asexual.

Sexuality Terminology

-   JATHYC: An adjective describing a sexual or romantic relationship
    between two men, named after the Ekalian deity Jathys, god of
    craftsmanship and commerce.
-   OUTRÉ: An archaic adjective describing a man who is exclusively
    attracted to women, or a woman who is exclusively attracted to men.
    Often considered offensive.
-   REIAN (ADJ): A recently-coined adjective describing someone who does
    not feel sexual attraction, or sometimes, romantic attraction. Named
    after the Ekalian deity Reios, god of politics and the underworld.
-   REIAN (N). Someone whose sexuality is _reian (adj)_.
-   SAPPHIQUE: An adjective describing a sexual or romantic relationship
    between two women, named after Safira, the first Bride of the Sun
    according to Asrian theology.

There are no particular terms for being a bisexual person, a lesbian, or
a gay man in Gallinean. Such concepts don’t exist in Elaran cultures.

Gallinean Holidays

Asrian Holy Days

The sixth day of every month is the first Sun Day of that month, and is
when most Asrian holy days celebrate the sun goddess Eserre. Devout
Gallineans are expected to attend church on those days, even if they
don’t manage to make it to services on any other Sun Day in a month.

6 Nivôse is celebrated as Winter’s Dawn, and is considered the official
start of the winter season. Services in the Asrian churches ask for the
blessings of the Goddess-Empress Eserre upon the faithful, and ask for a
gentle winter.

The winter solstice occurs on 6 Pluviôse, marking the midpoint of winter
and the time in which Eserre’s sun is out for the least amount of time.
Gallineans mark this date, and the two days around it, with the Winter’s
Noon Festival – a time to come together and share warmth, food, and
stories, in addition to religious services.

The 6th of Ventôse is the third holy day of winter in the Asrian faith,
and is known as Winter’s Dusk. Heading out of the coldest part of the
year toward the spring thaw, the Chaplains of Eserre ask for a
prosperous growing season. Tradition says that if a sun jay sees its
shadow at noon on Winter’s Dusk, winter weather will continue into
Germinal, the next month. The Chaplains in Lutetia raise sun jays
specifically for this purpose.

Spring’s Dawn, on 6 Germinal, is a day of thanks for the end of winter
and start of spring, with churches and worshipers alike decorated with
flowers. The 6th of Floréal is Spring’s Noon, the vernal equinox, and is
marked by outdoor festivals and dances around spring poles. Spring’s
Dusk on 6 Prairial is holy day of peace, when even the most brutal of
Elara’s armies will refrain from war.

Confirmation Day, 18 Prairial, commemorates the mythological wedding of
Eserre to her beloved Safira, the first Bride of the Sun. On this day
each year, young teenagers publicly present themselves as faithful
followers of the Sun Goddess and are henceforth considered as adults by
the Church.

On 6 Messidor, Summer’s Dawn, the Asrian high holy months officially
begin, lasting until Summer’s Dusk, 6 Fructidor. The legends of Eserre
and the Qartan Empire are read or re-enacted over the course of eight
consecutive Sun Days, save for 6 Fervidor, the holiest day of the year.
On that longest day of the year, and the days before and after it, known
as Summer’s Noon, the most lavish celebrations are held under the midday
sun. The most non-pious Gallineans will make a point to attend these
midsummer services, even if they will never enter a church or cathedral
the rest of the year.

The fall holy days of Autumn’s Dawn (6 Vendémiaire), Autumn’s Noon (6
Brumaire), and Autumn’s Dusk (6 Frimaire) are quieter affairs, devoted
to teaching, sermons, and service as the year winds down, the crops are
harvested, and the worshipers of the Sun Goddess prepare for winter.

New Moon Festivals

In addition to Asrian religious holy days, Gallineans also celebrate
ancient traditions associated with the Old Faith of the witches. These
folk holidays occur on new moons, in the evening when the sky is dark.
Most involve sharing of gifts and meals with family and close friends.

The New Hunger Moon, 16 Nivôse, is a time for giving food to those in
need in the chill of winter. 16 Pluviôse, the New Wolf Moon, is marked
by the exchange of furs and warm clothing. New Snow Moon, on 16 Ventôse,
is a celebration marked by wine and other types of alcohol that have
been saved in the snow all winter.

The New Sap Moon, on 16 Germinal, celebrates the start of spring with
traditional meals of maple syrups served on crêpes. 16 Floréal is the
New Rain Moon, and gifts of boots and jackets are common as the spring
rains begin. On 16 Prairial, the New Wishing Moon is celebrated with
exchanges of lucky trinkets and wishes kept in secret.

The 16th of Messidor, the New Berry Moon, marks the beginning of summer
with sweet pies, tarts, and pastries. The New Kissing Moon, on 16
Fervidor, is a night for lovers to spend in each others’ arms under the
stars, and is said to be the reason that there are more births than
normal in Floréal nine months later. The final folk celebration of the
summer, New Peddler’s Moon, is celebrated through the exchange of
hand-made gifts given as part of a mock barter system.

The first of the fall festivals, the New Harvest Moon on 16 Vendémiaire,
is a night of bonfires, music, and dancing. The New Huntress Moon, 16
Brumaire, is marked by large dinners of game meats such as venison,
rabbit, or pheasant. On the night of 16 Frimaire, the New Mourning Moon,
Gallineans remember their dead friends and relatives, especially those
who have passed within the last year, through guising or mumming.

Devran Holy Days

The Devrans have their own holy days when the moon is a crescent in the
sky. The 13th of each month is known as Last Crescent, and the 19th of
each month is the First Crescent. Ceremonies are held on both nights,
and many Devrans fast nightly during the week between the two holy days.

National Holidays

Gallinea’s national holidays are secular in nature and recognize
important events in the history of the queendom.

Treaty Day, also known as Betrothal Day, is the anniversary of the
signing of the Treaty of Scanbreille on 21 Nivôse 1241 – ending the war
between Albia and Gallinea through the later marriage of Prince Carolus
to Princess Mariana, the future Queen Mariana II. The 16th day of
Floréal, also called Espousal Day, is the anniversary of the wedding of
Carolus and Mariana in 1242.

Scanbrian Unification Day, 15 Pluviôse, commemorates the date in 989
when Scanbria became unified with Gallinea. Scanbrians also celebrate 30
Fructidor, Scanbrian Independence Day, which marks the date in 986 when
Scanbria declared its independence from Varendia. Many older Scanbrian
families still resent that the Grand Duchy of Scanbria lasted for only
three years before being annexed by the Gallineans, and the day is
usually one for political agitation. Needless to say, Scanbrian
Independence Day is not celebrated in the rest of Gallinea.

Victory Day, on 7 Prairial, marks the defeat of Varendia in 1123 by
future princess-consort Clarisse Sudelune, also known as La Dame de la
Victoire. The day is celebrated by military parades along the Rue du
Couer, both in Lutetia and elsewhere in Gallinea.

The Festival of Masques is held on 24 Prairial every year, and is an
annual celebration of freedom in Lutetia centered around lavish
masquerade balls, street parties, and excessive drinking. Anyone caught
outside of their home without a disguise is “arrested” and taken to the
nearest constable, who forces them to wear a cheap and embarrassing
costume. The Festival of Masques is also a time for much intrigue and
illicit affairs, as no one is whom they seem to be.

One of the largest civic holidays is the birthday of the queen. As the
current queen, Mariana’s birth is celebrated every 19 Fructidor. The
birthday of her mother, the late Queen Elisse II, used to be celebrated
on 21 Floréal but is no longer an official holiday. Some members of the
nobility, who strongly opposed Elisse’s policies when she lived,
celebrate only her birthday to insult the current queen.

The deaths of Queen Elisse and her daughter, crown princess Jehanne, are
remembered by solemn ceremonies on 22 Frimaire, as they have been every
year since that dark day in 1243.

30 Nivôse and 1 Pluviôse, the end of one year and the start of the next,
are secular holidays celebrated as Year’s Dusk and Year’s Dawn. These
are usually quiet days of reflection on the events of the previous
twelve months and a time to make plans for the upcoming year.


Opponents

Types of Opponents

There are several types of opponents that can present challenges, both
in combat and out of combat, for player characters. These opponents are
rated in terms of how important they are to the story: rabble are at
best extras, while minor opponents take supporting roles. Major
opponents, of course, can challenge a group of cavaliers as major
villains or powerful allies!

Using Opponents

Don’t assume that all opponents are there to fight! A corrupt noble,
scheming artisan, angry soldier, or even hapless rabble could complicate
the heroes’ lives without even lifting a finger.

Use opposed rolls, such as a duplicitous politician’s Deception vs. a
player’s Negotation, to represent a duel of words – trying to to
convince a court of one’s guilt or innocence.

Don’t make rolls against Standard Opposition for opponents, though – you
shouldn’t ever be rolling against yourself! Either find a way for the
player to oppose the roll, or just decide via fiat whether the opponent
succeeds or not.

Similarly, if an opponent is actually friendly and wishes to help the
cavaliers, use the rule for assisting to have them grant additional dice
to the players’ rolls.

Rabble

Usually appearing in groups, rabble are faceless opposition who don’t
present a major challenge to the player characters. Rabble have the
following characteristics:

-   D0 or D6 Competency die
-   Wealth pool based on 1 Social Rank die
-   Yield Limit of 3
-   Wound Limit of 1 (after taking 1 wound, they are Dying)
-   Attributes of D6/D6/D6, D8/D8/D8, or D6/D8/D10
-   Maximum of +1 Specialty Ranks
-   Two Passions (D8, D6)
-   No Style Maneuvers
-   Start with 0 Style Points, with a maximum of 1 Style Point
-   Usually appear in groups (up to twice the number of PCs)

Stock Character

A stock character is one that has a tangible role in the game but
probably doesn’t need a name; instead, they are identified by their
profession or story role. Characteristics of stock characters include:

-   Competency die usually D6 (D8 or higher for elite characters)
-   Wealth pool based on 1 Social Rank die plus Competency die
-   Yield Limit equal to 3 plus half the maximum value of their
    Competency die
-   Wound Limit of 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
-   Attributes of D8/D8/D8 or D6/D8/D10
-   Maximum of +2 Specialty Ranks in three Specialties (or higher for
    elite characters)
-   Three Passions (D10, D8, D6)
-   One or Two Style Maneuvers
-   Start with 0 Style Points, with a maximum of 1 Style Point
-   Sometimes appear in groups (one per PC), or sometimes lead groups of
    rabble

Minor Character

A minor character usually has a name, and has more of a background (and
usually more skills) than a stock character or rabble. Minor characters
have the following characteristics:

-   Competency die usually D6 or D8 (D10 or higher for elite characters)
-   Wealth pool based on 2 Social Rank dice plus Competency die
-   Yield Limit equal to 3 plus the maximum value of their Competency
    die
-   Wound Limit of 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
-   Attributes of D6/D8/D10
-   Maximum of +2 Specialty Ranks in three Specialties
-   Three Passions (D10, D8, D6)
-   Two Style Maneuvers
-   Start with 1 Style Point, with a maximum of 3 Style Points
-   Usually appear singly although often found in groups of minor
    characters or stock characters as leaders, or as henchpersons of
    major characters

Major Character

Major characters always have names, and play a key role as opponents (or
allies) for the player characters. All should have complex motivations
and are built as player characters are built, with just a few
exceptions. Characteristics of major characters include:

-   Competency die of D8 or higher, and corresponding experience points
    spent
-   Wealth pool based on 2 Social Rank dice plus Competency die
-   Yield limit equal to 6 plus the maximum value of their Competency
    die
-   Wound limit of 5 (Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
-   Attributes of D6/D8/D10
-   Maximum of +3 Specialty Ranks (higher for elite characters); built
    as per player characters with experience points
-   Four Passions (D12, D10, D8, D6)
-   Three Style Maneuvers, plus additional if bought with experience
    points
-   Start with 3 Style Points, with a maximum of 6 Style Points
-   Are unique individuals in the world
-   Have full character sheets as do player characters

Customizing Opponents

You can adjust opponents to represent other types of characters in the
world; for example, a Pirate Crewmember could be used as the basis for
an Ekalian Navy Sailor by changing her Passions.

Some of the ways you can customize the opponents listed in this chapter
include:

-   Increasing the size of the Competency die (from D6 to D8, for
    example)
-   Adding or removing specialty ranks (up to the maximum value)
-   Changing equipment
-   Upping the Yield Limit or Wound Limit
-   Altering the character’s Passions
-   Adding, removing, or changing a Style Maneuver
-   Adding, removing, or changing a Language

Rabble

The following characters could be used as opponents for typical starting
cavaliers (D6 or D8 Competency dice), or can be used as allies, rivals,
assistants, or supporting characters.

Angry Mob Member

_Rabble_

From time to time, even the tolerant and accepting people of Gallinea
can get roused into an angry horde looking for blood, especially if the
right balance of rhetoric and wine is maintained. These rabble can
represent any mob that gathers for some specific purpose.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D6, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Impulse (1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D6), Block (1D6), Dodge (1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (3D6), Riposte (2D6), Feint (2D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D6), Aim (2D6)
STREETWISE: Carouse +1 (2D6)
EQUIPMENT: Club (D6) or Knife (D6), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Country (D8), Justice (D6)

Bedraggled Urchin

_Rabble_

Charity food, housing, and education are all available to the poor in
Gallinea, but not all choose to partake of such hospitality for reasons
of their own. Peasant children found on the street may be legitimately
hungry, or they might just be looking to score a handout from
kind-hearted rubes visiting from out of town.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D8, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D10)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D6), Block (1D8), Dodge +1 (2D10)
DUELING: Lunge (2D6), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +1 (2D8), Deceive +1 (2D10)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D6)
NATURE: Prowl +1 (2D10)
OBSERVATION: Intuition +1 (2D8)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2d8), Larceny +1 (2D10)
EQUIPMENT: Club (D6) or Dagger (D6), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth (D8), Friends (D6)

Bloodthirsty Buccaneer

_Rabble_

While these can be used to represent nearly any adequately trained
sailor, they are most commonly encountered as part of a pirate ship’s
crew, climbing the rigging or swinging on ropes.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D8)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (3D8), Block (1D8), Dodge +1 (2D8)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (3D8), Riposte +1 (3D8), Feint +1 (3D8)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8), Aim +1 (2D8+1D6)
NATURE: Explore +1 (2D8)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2d8), Larceny +1 (2D8)
EQUIPMENT: Cutlass (D8), Pistol x2 (D6), Corsair Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)

Lutetian Watch Grunt

_Rabble_

The lowest ranks of the city watch in Lutetia are assigned to patrol the
streets, usually at night. They’re competent enough to keep random
citizens from committing crimes, but aren’t really a match for a
well-trained duelist.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigiliance (1D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block +1 (3D10+1D6), Dodge (2D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (1D10+2D8+1D6, pike; 3D8+1D6, sword), Riposte
(2D10+1D8+D6, sword), Feint (1D8+2D6, sword)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +1 (3D10+1D6, musket)
OBSERVATION: Perceive +1 (2D8)
EQUIPMENT: Pike (D10), Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate
(D10), Guard Uniform
PASSIONS: Loyalty (D8), Justice (D6)

Desperate Convict

_Rabble_

Women or men who commit crimes in Gallinea and surrounding countries are
sentenced to prison stays that only grow longer as the criminals
continue to repeat their crimes. This makes some of them desperate to
find any way to escape.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: (1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D8), Dodge +1 (2D8)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6), Riposte (2D8), Feint +1 (2D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Deceive +1 (2D8)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8)
STREETWISE: Larceny +1 (2D8)
EQUIPMENT: Crude Shiv (D6), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth (D8), Family (D6)

Drunken Brawler

_Rabble_

When a bar fight breaks out, these besotted fools are often in the thick
of it, usually fighting for no particular reason than just because
there’s a fight to be had. Those who are particularly intoxicated take a
Drop 1 penalty on all rolls.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D10, Affinity D8, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Impulse (1D10)
DEFENSE: Parry (1D10+1D6), Block (1D8), Dodge (1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (2D10+1D6), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint (2D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D10), Aim (1D8+1D6)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D10), Carouse +1 (2D8)
EQUIPMENT: Improvised weapon (chair, bottle, fork) (D6), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Friends (D8), Lust (D6)

Elissian Colonist

_Rabble_

The far southern land of Elissia is home to colonists from Gallinea who
have sought a new start in a new land. They are often unfairly
stereotyped as all criminals; this is untrue, as only about half of them
are known lawbreakers.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D6, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D6), Block +1 (2D6), Dodge (1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (3D6), Riposte (2D6), Feint (2D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D6), Aim +1 (1D10+2D6)
NATURE: Explore +1 (2D6), Husbandry +1 (2D6)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D6), Carouse +1 (2D6), Larceny +1 (2D6)
EQUIPMENT: Quarterstaff (D6), Musket (D10), Commoner Outfit
PASSIONS: Friends (D8), Country (D6)

Gossiping Courtier

_Rabble_

The various hangers-on of the Lutetian court – and other noble estates –
love nothing better than a good rumor, especially a scandalous one. If
one’s pride is insulted, she may even draw steel – although usually
those rapiers are just for decoration’s sake.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 1D10 (Noble)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D10)
CULTURE: Arts +1 (2D8), Etiquette +1 (2D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D6), Dodge +1 (2D10)
DUELING: Lunge (2D8), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D6)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2D6)
EQUIPMENT: Rapier (D8)
PASSIONS: Pride (D8), Knowledge (D6), Courtly Outfit

Greedy Bandit

_Rabble_

While the roads of Gallinea are regularly patrolled, bandit enclaves
still exist especially further out in the Provinces. This bandit was
probably a farmer at one time and turned to banditry when her crops
failed.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D8), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge +1 (2D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (3D8), Riposte (1D10+1D8), Feint (1D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8), Aim +1 (2D10+1D6)
NATURE: Husbandry +1 (2D10), Prowl +1 (2D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Bow (D6), Leather Jerkin (D6), Horse, Peasant
Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)

Infantry Recruit

_Rabble_

The armies of Gallinea and neighboring countries are filled with
soldiers from all walks of life who join for promise of a steady
paycheck, to see the world, or to get out serving time.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D8)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D8), Block +1 (1D10+2D8), Dodge (1D8)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (1D10+2D8), Riposte (2D8), Feint (2D8)
MILITARY: Brawl (1D8), Aim +1 (1D10+2D8)
NATURE: Explore +1 (2D8)
OBSERVATION: Perceive +1 (2D8)
EQUIPMENT: Pike (D10), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate (D10), Guard
Uniform
PASSIONS: Country (D8), Loyalty (D6)

Laconic Farmer

_Rabble_

This is a farmer. That’ll do.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D6), Block (1D10), Dodge (1D6)
(DUELING): Lunge (2D6), Riposte (1D10+1D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +1 (2D10)
(MILITARY): Brawl (1D6), Aim (1D10+1D6)
NATURE: Husbandry +1 (2D10)
OBSERVATION: Perceive +1 (2D8)
EQUIPMENT: Quarterstaff (D8), Musket (D10), Pig, Commoner Outfit
PASSIONS: Family (D8), Country (D6)

Street Tough

_Rabble_

Even in Lutetia, criminal elements can be found lurking in the back
alleys and side streets. These toughs aren’t usually murderous, only
trying to mug someone for their Sols.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D10)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (2D8+1D6), Block (1D6), Dodge +1 (2D10)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6), Riposte (2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8)
STREETWISE: Larceny +1 (2D10)
EQUIPMENT: Knife (D6), Commoner Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth (D8), Friends (D6)

Unemployed Thespian

_Rabble_

Although the best actors of the age are well-known to most Lutetians,
there are vast numbers of less successful thespians who eke out a meager
living at menial jobs in-between auditions. Most of them carry around a
sword just so they look the part, whatever part that may be.

COMPETENCY DIE: D0
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D10, Affinity D6, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Impulse (1D10)
CULTURE: Arts +1 (2D10), Etiquette +1 (2D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (1D10+1D8), Block (1D6), Dodge +1 (2D8)
DUELING: Lunge (1D10+1D8), Riposte (1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (3D8)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D8), Carouse +1 (2D6)
EQUIPMENT: Rapier (D8), Swashbuckler Outfit
PASSIONS: Pride (D8), Knowledge (D6)

Stock Characters

Stock characters might appear several times, but rarely get named.
Consider upgrading any which see frequent use to minor character status.

Boorish Fop

_Stock Character_

All bluster and fashion sense with little else to offer, fops can be
found anywhere from the courts of the royal palace to the bars down by
the docks. They can be easily angered if called out on their
self-aggrandizing half-truths.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D10+1D6 (Noble)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Arts +1 (3D6), Etiquette +1 (2D10+1D6), Scholarship +1
(2D8+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge +2 (3D8+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge (1D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (3D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +1 (2D10+1D6), Deceive +2 (3D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl (3D6), Aim (1D10+2D6)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (3D6), Carouse +2 (3D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Pistol (D6), the latest fashion of Courtly Outfit
PASSIONS: Lust (D10), Pride (D8), Friends (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Drunken Stagger (spend 1 to add Carouse to Lunge)

Brash Fencer

_Stock Character_

Many young bravos come to the big city hoping to make names for
themselves, and attempt to do so by challenging multiple people to
duels. (Sometimes they accidentally schedule three for the same time and
place; time management is not their forte.)

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D10, Affinity D6, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 2D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Impulse (1D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Block (1D8+2D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Riposte +2 (4D8+1D6), Feint +1
(1D8+3D6)
INTERACTION: Inspire +1 (2D10+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D10+1D6), Aim +1 (2D8+2D6)
NATURE: Husbandry +1 (2D6)
STREETWISE: Banter +2 (3D10+1D6), Carouse +1 (2D8+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Pistol (D6), Buckler (D8), Draft Horse,
Swashbuckler Outfit
PASSIONS: Pride (D10), Artistry (D8), Family (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Precise Swordplay (spend 2 to maximize Sword Weapon
Die)

Cavalry Officer

_Stock Character_

Officers in the cavalry are usually chosen from among the lower
nobility, and are often groomed to be the next generals of the armies.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D10, Affinity D8, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D10+1D6 (Noble)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Impulse (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Etiquette +1 (2D8+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Block +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Dodge (2D6)
DUELING: Lunge +2 (3D10+1D8+1D6), Riposte (2D8+1D6), Feint (1D8+2D6)
INTERACTION: Inspire +1 (2D10+1D6)
NATURE: Husbandry +1 (2D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl (1D10+1D6), Aim +1 (2D8+2D6), Strategy +1 (3D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Pistol (D10), Steel Breastplate (D10), Warhorse,
Guard Uniform
PASSIONS: Country (D10), Pride (D8), Family (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Mounted Combatant (when charging while mounted, spend 1
to add Husbandry to Lunge), Protective Reliability (spend 1 to reroll
Defense)

Lutetian Watch Officer

_Stock Character_

The more experienced members of the watch are promoted to officer ranks
and have more training. An officer could be found as the head of a group
of grunts, or working with a squad of other officers against more
experienced player characters.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 2D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Etiquette +1 (2D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block +1 (3D10+1D6), Dodge (2D6)
DUELING: Lunge +2 (4D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint (1D8+2D6)
INTERACTION: Inspire +1 (2D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +2 (4D10+1D6)
OBSERVATION: Perceive +1 (2D8+1D6), Deduce +1 (3D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate (D6), Guard
Uniform
PASSIONS: Loyalty (D10), Justice (D8), Country (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Practiced Sharpshooting (spend 2 to maximize Aim),
Reliable Protection (spend 1 to reroll Defense)

Dangerous Revolutionary

_Stock Character_

Not everyone in Gallinea owes allegiance to Queen Mariana. This
revolutionary can represent any conspirator who is plotting against the
Queen and country.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 2D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Impulse (1D8+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (3D8+1D6), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge +1 (2D8+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +2 (4D8+1D6), Riposte (2D8+1D6), Feint +2 (4D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Deceive +1 (2D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +1 (1D10+2D8+1D6)
SCIENCE: Blackpowder +1 (2D8+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Leather Jerkin (D6), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Loyalty (D10), Pride (D8), Justice (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Cunning Misdirection (spend 2 to maximize Feint)

Devious Smuggler

_Stock Character_

Smugglers and other criminals can be found at the edges of civilized
Gallinean society, trading in information as much as they do their
contraband goods. This is a typical smuggler who might be encountered in
Gallinea or abroad.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D8, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 1D6+1D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (3D6), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge +2(3D10+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge (3D6), Riposte +1 (2D8+2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+2D6)
INTERACTION: Deceive +1 (2D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Aim +2 (2D8+2D6)
OBSERVATION: Intuition +1 (2D8+1D6)
NATURE: Explore +1 (3D6), Prowl +2 (3D10+1D6)
STREETWISE: Carouse +1 (2D8+1D6), Larceny +1 (2D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Pistol (D6), Daggers x3 (D6), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth (D10), Friends (D8), Pride (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Cunning Camouflage (spend 2 to maximize Prowl)

Fastidious Physicker

_Stock Character_

This doctor may not have much when it comes to bedside manner, but she’s
a brilliant surgeon and diagnostician, despite her addiction issues and
her limp. Cavaliers can seek out a doctor like this if they are in need
of healing.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile 8
WEALTH POOL: 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D8+1D6)
CULTURE: Scholarship +1 (3D8)
DEFENSE: Parry (1D8+1D6), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (3D8+1D6), Riposte (1D8+2D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)
MEDICINE: Surgery +2 (3D8+2D6), Treat +2 (3D8+2D6), Poison +1 (2D8+1D6)
(MILITARY): Brawl (1D8), Aim (1D8)
OBSERVATION: Perception +1 (2D8+1D6), Intuition +1 (2D8+1D6), Deduce +2
(3D8+1D6)
SCIENCE: Calculus +1 (2D8+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Chirurgeon’s Knives (D6), Medicine x8, Physician Outfit
PASSIONS: Artistry (D10), Pride (D8), Wealth (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Reliable Physicking (spend 1 to reroll Medicine)

Gregarious Barkeep

_Stock Character_

The barkeep is more than willing to lend an ear when you need one, and
keep the drinks coming – but if trouble breaks out in her bar, she’s
ready to lay a beatdown on drunken customers.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (2D8+2D6), Block +1 (2D10+2D6), Dodge (2D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (2D8+2D6), Riposte (1D10+2D6), Feint (2D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +2 (2D10+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +2 (3D8+1D6), Aim +1 (2D10+2D6)
OBSERVATION: Perception +1 (2D8+1D6), Intuition +2 (2D10+1D6)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D8+1D6), Carouse +2 (2D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Club (D6), Heavy Ale Stein (D6), Leather Apron (D6), Crafter
Outfit
PASSIONS: Friends (D10), Artistry (D8), Pride (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Aggressive Fisticuffs (spend 2 to maximize Brawl)

Grizzled Veteran

_Stock Character_

The last war with Albia ended just a few years ago, but lasted for
decades. There are a number of former soldiers who live their lives as
hired mercenaries, guardsmen, members of the militia, or drunken sots.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D8, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 2D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D8+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block +2 (3D8+2D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (3D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (3D8+1D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +2 (3D8+1D6), Aim +2 (1D10+3D8+1D6), Strategy +1
(2D8+1D6)
STREETWISE: Carouse +1 (2D8+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Musket (D10), Leather Jerkin (D6), Guard Uniform
PASSIONS: Loyalty(D10), Wealth (D8), Country (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Reliable Protection (spend 1 to reroll Defense)

Long-Suffering Tutor

_Stock Character_

Often found in the employ of nobles or rich merchants to teach their
children, the tutor is an educated person whose skills aren’t as
practical as most. A few can train someone in the basics of swordplay.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
(INITIATIVE): Vigilance (1D10)
CULTURE: Arts +1 (3D6), Etiquette +2 (3D10+1D6), Scholarship +2
(3D8+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (1D8+3D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge (1D8+2D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint (2D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +1 (2D10+1D6)
OBSERVATION: Deduce +1 (2D8+1D6)
SCIENCE: Calculus +2 (3D8+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), books on a variety of subjects (four, D6 each),
Courtly Outfit
PASSIONS: Knowledge (D10), Artistry (D8), Family (D6)
LANGUAGES: Gallinean and two others
STYLE MANEUVERS: Refined Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Culture),
Cunning Erudition (spend 2 to maximize Scholarship)

Wary Shopkeep

_Stock Character_

This merchant has dealt with shoplifters before – as well as arrogant
cavaliers, who think they can come into her shop and boss her around –
and isn’t in the mood for any funny business. Her business could be any
of the kind found in Lutetia and surrounding areas.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D8+1D6 (Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Etiquette +1 (2D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (3D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge (1D8+1D6)
(DUELING): Lunge (2D6), Riposte (1D10+D6), Feint (1D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +2 (3D10+1D6), Deceive +1 (2D8+1D6)
OBSERVATION: Intuition +2 (3D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Knife (D6) or Club (D6), Crafter Outfit
PASSIONS: Artistry (D10), Wealth (D8), Family (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Social Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Interaction)

Minor Characters

You should name each minor character that figures into your game,
although you don’t need to have them directly introduce themselves to
the cavaliers. You’ll probably also want to choose their appearances and
give them one or more personality quirks.

Beleaguered Speaker

_Minor Character_

Even with guaranteed freedom of religion in Gallinea, many who follow
the Devran faith find themselves subject to harassment and scorn. This
speaker is one who has to watch her back while engaging in religious
rabble-rousing.

COMPETENCY DIE: D8
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D8+2D0 (Commoner)
YIELD LIMIT: 11
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance +1 (2D10+1D8)
CULTURE: Arts +1 (1D8+2D6), Etiquette +1 (2D10+1D6), Scholarship +1
(3D8)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (4D6), Block +1 (2D10+1D6), Dodge (2D8)
DUELING: Lunge (1D8+2D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint +1 (3D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Inspire +1 (1D8+2D6), Negotiate +1 (2D10+1D6), Deceive +1
(2D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (1D8+1D6), Aim +1 (2D10+2D6)
NATURE: Explore +1 (1D8+2D6), Husbandry +1 (2D10+1D8), Prowl +1 (3D8)
OBSERVATION: Intuition +1 (2D10+1D6), Deduce +1 (3D8)
SCIENCE: Calculus +1 (3D8)
EQUIPMENT: Dagger (D6), Desert Hunting Bow (D6), Commoner Outfit
PASSIONS: Faith (D10), Justice (D8), Pride (D6)
LANGUAGES: Gallinean, Ifrani
STYLE MANEUVERS: Rural Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Nature), Rites of
the Moon (when speaking to Devrans, spend 1 to add Etiquette to Inspire)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Devout Asrian Priestess

_Minor Character_

The goddess-empress Eserre, worshiped as “Ashra” in some parts of the
world, is the deity of the sun – she who gives light and warmth to the
world each day. This is a typical priestess of Eserre.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6
WEALTH POOL: 1D8+1D6+1D0 (Commoner, Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Arts +2 (3D8+1D6), Etiquette +2 (3D10+1D6), Scholarship +2
(4D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (2D8+2D6), Block (1D10+1D6), Dodge (2D6)
DUELING: Lunge (1D8+2D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+2D6), Feint (2D6)
INTERACTION: Inspire +2 (3D8+1D6), Negotiate +2 (3D10+1D6)
(MILITARY): Brawl (1D8), Aim (1D10)
MAGICK: Portents +1 (3D6)
OBSERVATION: Intuition +2 (3D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Quarterstaff (D6), Prayer Books x2 (D8), Priest Outfit
PASSIONS: Church(D10), Faith (D8), Family (D6)
LANGUAGES: Gallinean, Ondalan, Old Qartan
STYLE MANEUVERS: Refined Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Culture), Books
of the Sun (when speaking to Asrians, spend 1 to add Scholarship to
Inspire)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Dishonest Mechanician

_Minor Character_

This is an example of a mechanician who was accused of stealing plans
from another inventor (which she did do) and then went underground to
avoid censure from her peers. She can be used as a henchperson for a
primary villain, or as an independent agent.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D8, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 2D8+1D6 (Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Scholarship +2 (3D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D6), Block (1D10+2D6), Dodge +1 (2D10+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge (1D8+2D6), Riposte +1 (1D8+2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+2D6)
INTERACTION: Deceive +1 (2D10+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl (2D6), Aim +2 (2D8+3D6)
OBSERVATION: Deduce +1 (2D10+1D6)
SCIENCE: Blackpowder +1 (3D6), Clockworks +2 (3D8+1D6), Calculus +1
(2D10+1D6)
STREETWISE: Larceny +1 (2D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Clockwork Pistol (D6), Dagger (D6), Leather Jerkin (D6),
Tools (D6), miscellaneous clockwork devices, Clockworker Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth(D10), Pride (D8), Artistry (D6)
LANGUAGES: Gallinean, Talanian
STYLE MANEUVERS: Precise Mechanics (spend 2 to maximize
Clockwork Weapon Die), Automatic Fire (when using a clockwork weapon,
spend 1 to add Clockworks to Aim)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Modern Sergents-Majors Généraux

_Minor Character_

She is the very model of a sergeant-major general: she has information
on vegetables, animals and minerals. She knows the kings of Albia and
can quote historical battles. She’s well acquainted, too, with
mathematical matters.

Her practical experience on the battlefield, however, may be very
limited.

She can make a great foil for cavaliers in a city-based adventure, or
could be leading any military unit in the field.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 1D10+2D6 (Soldier, Noble)
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Arts +2 (3D8+1D6), Etiquette +2 (4D6), Scholarship +2
(3D10+1D6) DEFENSE: Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block (1D10+2D6), Dodge
(1D10+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (3D8+1D6), Riposte +1 (1D8+3D6), Feint +1
(2D10+1D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +1 (3D6)
MILITARY: Brawl (1D8+1D6), Aim +1 (1D10+3D6), Strategy +2 (3D10+1D6)
SCIENCE: Blackpowder +1 (2D8+1D6), Clockworks +1 (3D6), Calculus +2
(3D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Cavalry Saber (D8), Musket (D10), Steel Breastplate (D10),
Guard Uniform
PASSIONS: Country (D10), Pride (D8), Knowledge (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Incoming Fire (when avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1
to add Aim to Dodge), Refined Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Culture)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Petty Noble

_Minor Character_

This is a minor noblewoman (or nobleman) from somewhere in Gallinea;
there are hundreds of such people in the nation. They all think they’re
uniquely special.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D6, Affinity D10, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 2D10+1D6 (Noble)
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance (1D10+1D6)
CULTURE: Arts +1 (3D6), Etiquette +2 (3D10+1D6), Scholarship +1
(2D8+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (1D8+3D6), Block +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Dodge +1 (2D8+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +1 (1D8+3D6), Riposte +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6), Feint +1
(3D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Inspire +1 (2D8+1D6), Negotiate +2 (3D10+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl (2D6), Aim +1 (2D10+2D6), Strategy +1 (2D8+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Fancy Rapier (D8), Buckler (D8), Pistol (D6), Courtly Outfit
PASSIONS: Family (D10), Pride (D8), Wealth (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Social Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Interaction),
Manners Count (when speaking to someone of at least Artisan rank, spend
1 to add Etiquette to Negotate)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Privateer Captain

_Minor Character_

These dread pirates sail the seas, plundering boats and leading crews of
bloodthirsty buccaneers. Some actually have letters of marque and are
thus authorized by a given country’s government – as long as they don’t
start preying on the ships of that nation.

COMPETENCY DIE: D8
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D10, Affinity D6, Guile D8
WEALTH POOL: 1D8+2D6 (Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 11
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Impulse +1 (2D10+1D8)
DEFENSE: Parry +2 (3D10+2D8), Block (1D8+1D6), Dodge +2 (4D8)
DUELING: Lunge +2 (3D10+2D8), Riposte +2 (2D8+3D6), Feint +2 (5D8)
INTERACTION: Inspire +2 (3D10+1D8), Negotiate +1 (1D8+2D6), Deceive +1
(3D8)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D10+1D8), Aim +2 (1D8+4D6), Strategy +1 (3D8)
NATURE: Explore +2 (3D10+1D8), Prowl +1 (3D8)
OBSERVATION: Perceive +1 (2D10+1D8)
SCIENCE: Blackpowder +2 (3D10+1D8), Calculus +1 (3D8)
STREETWISE: Banter +2 (3D10+1D8), Carouse +2 (1D8+3D6), Larceny +1 (3D8)
EQUIPMENT: Cutlass (D8), Dagger x2(D6), Brace of 4 Pistols (D6),
Spyglass (D8), Sextant (D8), Swashbuckler Outfit, Sailing Ship or
Airship
PASSIONS: Pride(D10), Loyalty (D8), Wealth (D6)
LANGUAGES: Gallinean, Ekalian
STYLE MANEUVERS: Aggressive Fulmination (spend 2 to maximize
Blackpowder), Into the Rigging (when on a ship, spend 1 to add Explore
to Dodge)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Rogue Highwayman

_Minor Character_

The rogue highwayman is encountered on the country roads of Gallinea,
and makes a living by stealing from others at gunpoint. Often she’s the
leader of a group of greedy bandits.

COMPETENCY DIE: D6
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 2D6+1D0 (Commoner, Soldier)
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing (1D10+1D6)
DEFENSE: Parry +1 (3D8+1D6), Block (3D6), Dodge +2 (3D10+1D6)
DUELING: Lunge +2 (4D8+1D6), Riposte (1D8+2D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6)
MILITARY: Brawl +1 (2D8+1D6), Aim +2 (5D6)
NATURE: Explore +1 (2D8+1D6), Husbandry +2 (4D6), Prowl +2 (3D10+1D6)
STREETWISE: Banter +1 (2D8+1D6), Carouse +1 (3D6), Larceny +2 (3D10+1D6)
EQUIPMENT: Sword (D8), Dagger (D6), Pistol (D6), Mask, Horse,
Swashbuckler Outfit
PASSIONS: Wealth(D10), Family (D8), Pride (D6)
STYLE MANEUVERS: Cunning Camouflage (spend 2 to maximize Prowl),
Reliable Protection (spend 1 to reroll Defense)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Secretive Soothsayer

_Minor Character_

A witch and fortune reader, the soothsayer makes her living by
dispensing sage advice mixed with magickal readings of the portents. She
affects an air of mystery and tries to appear older than she really is.

COMPETENCY DIE: D8
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 2D8+1D0 (Commoner, Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing +1 (2D10+1D8)
CULTURE: Arts +2 (4D8)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D8+1D6), Block (2D6), Dodge +1 (2D10+1D8)
DUELING: Lunge (2D8+1D6), Riposte (3D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +2 (1D8+3D6), Deceive +1 (2D10+1D6)
MAGICKS: Brew +2 (1D8+3D6), Portents +2 (3D10+2D8)
OBSERVATION: Perception +2 (4D8), Deduce +2 (3D10+1D8)
EQUIPMENT: Knife (D6), Divination Cards (D8), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Knowledge (D10), Family (D8), Love (D6)
LANGUAGES: French, Russian
STYLE MANEUVERS: Cunning Premonition (spend 2 to maximize Portents), Saw
That Coming (when unarmed, spend 1 to add Portents to Dodge)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Secretive Soothsayer

_Minor Character_

A witch and fortune reader, the soothsayer makes her living by
dispensing sage advice mixed with magickal readings of the portents. She
affects an air of mystery and tries to appear older than she really is.

COMPETENCY DIE: D8
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D6, Guile D10
WEALTH POOL: 2D8+1D0 (Commoner, Artisan)
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Timing +1 (2D10+1D8)
CULTURE: Arts +2 (4D8)
DEFENSE: Parry (2D8+1D6), Block (2D6), Dodge +1 (2D10+1D8)
DUELING: Lunge (2D8+1D6), Riposte (3D6), Feint +1 (2D10+1D8+1D6)
INTERACTION: Negotiate +2 (1D8+3D6), Deceive +1 (2D10+1D6)
MAGICKS: Brew +2 (1D8+3D6), Portents +2 (3D10+2D8)
OBSERVATION: Perception +2 (4D8), Deduce +2 (3D10+1D8)
EQUIPMENT: Knife (D6), Divination Cards (D8), Peasant Outfit
PASSIONS: Knowledge (D10), Family (D8), Love (D6)
LANGUAGES: Gallinean, Talanian
STYLE MANEUVERS: Cunning Premonition (spend 2 to maximize Portents), Saw
That Coming (when unarmed, spend 1 to add Portents to Dodge)
STYLE POINTS: 1 (maximum 3)

Creating Major Characters

As key opponents in a game of _The Queen’s Cavaliers_, major characters
should be created to serve specific roles in your game, such as a master
villain, a major foil, a powerful ally, or a respected mentor. The
recommended method is to build a major opponent in the same way that
you’d create a player character, choosing two classes and so on, and
then adding extra experience.

But sometimes you don’t have the time to do it that way, and you just
need to create one simply. Here’s how that works.

-   First, come up with an idea of what this character is like, and what
    kind of role she’ll play in the campaign.
-   Pick five specialties which she’ll use the most; perhaps Lunge for a
    duelist or Inspire for a chaplain. These are her primary
    specialties.
-   Choose another five specialties which are important, but not the
    focus of her activity. These are secondary specialties.
-   Finally, pick another five tertiary specialties, which are things
    she can do, but aren’t central to her character.
-   Assign a D10, D8, and D6 to her attributes in a way that makes sense
    to you, based on her concept.
-   Choose how much of a challenge you want to present to your
    cavaliers; this will determine approximately how many experience
    points she’ll have. Generally speaking, you’ll want a major opponent
    to have about as many experience points as the sum of all your
    cavaliers, with a minimum of around 20 XP and a maximum around 200.
-   Consult the table, Opponent Creation, and choose one line
    representing how many experience points your major character will
    have.
-   She will have the listed number of ranks in each of her primary,
    secondary, and tertiary specialties, as well as competency in the
    associated skills – plus Defense, Initiative, Interaction, and
    Interaction.
-   Assign prowess in two to four types of weapons, zero to two types of
    armor, and two to four languages, based on your concept.
-   Pick her social class rank, assign one or more outfits, and equip
    her with whatever weapons, armor, and other equipment makes the most
    sense.
-   Most major characters will have two to four pieces of charmwoven
    apparel, with a charm die equal to their competency die. These charm
    dice usually assigned to one of the primary specialties or one of
    the tertiary ones.
-   Choose four Passions, assigning them in order from D12 to D6.
-   Pick three Style Maneuvers.
-   Finally, if she has any additional XP as shown on the table, spend
    those on whatever else you think might be fun. Extra style maneuvers
    or specialty ranks in Initiative are always good choices!

  XP Spent   Competency Die   Maximum   Primary   Secondary   Tertiary   Additional XP
  ---------- ---------------- --------- --------- ----------- ---------- ---------------
  0 XP       D6               +2        +2        +1          +0         0 XP
  10 XP      D6               +2        +2        +2          +0         0 XP
  20 XP      D8               +3        +2        +2          +1         5 XP
  35 XP      D8               +3        +3        +2          +1         5 XP
  50 XP      D10              +4        +3        +3          +1         5 XP
  70 XP      D10              +4        +4        +3          +1         5 XP
  90 XP      D10              +4        +4        +4          +1         5 XP
  100 XP     D12              +5        +4        +4          +2         5 XP
  125 XP     D12              +5        +5        +4          +2         5 XP
  150 XP     D12              +5        +5        +5          +2         5 XP
  175 XP     D12              +5        +5        +5          +3         15 XP
  225 XP     D12              +5        +5        +5          +5         20 XP

  : Opponent Creation

Example of Major Character Creation

Let’s say you’ve decided you’re going to make a major character who is
an important baroness from Varendia; in additional to her political
position, she’s also an accomplished combatant, skilled with sword and
pistol.

Looking over the list of specialties, we come up with the following
primary specialties: Block, Parry, Riposte, Vigilance, and Aim. For
secondary specialties, Lunge, Scholarship, Negotiate, Brawl, and
Etiquette make sense. And as tertiary specialties, Intuition, Inspire,
Strategy, Explore, and Carouse.

With a number of Affinity specialties, it makes sense for her to have a
D10 for Affinity, with a D8 for Verve and a D6 for Guile.

The cavaliers in your game are pretty experienced; most have a D8
competency die and have spent around 25 XP each. With four players, that
means that 100 XP is a good starting place for this major character’s
abilities. However, checking the chart above, that would place her at a
D12 competency die; we don’t want her to be too powerful, since she’ll
have backup in the form of her loyal guards, so we’ll go with 80 XP
instead.

This gives her a D10 Competency Die, +4 ranks in her primary
specialties, +3 ranks in her secondary specialties, and +1 rank in her
tertiary specialties. If she’s going to use Riposte, which is one of her
primary specialties, she has a +4 ranks. With Strategy, she only has +1
rank.

Picking a name for our baroness, we come up with Ingunn von Sicherheim,
and then fill in the rest of her stats as follows:

Ingunn von Sicherheim

_Major Character_

COMPETENCY DIE: D10
ATTRIBUTES: Verve D8, Affinity D10, Guile D6
WEALTH: 3D10 (noble)
YIELD LIMIT: 16
WOUND LIMIT: 5 (Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Vigilance +4 (6D10)
CULTURE: Etiquette +3 (5D10), Scholarship +3 (4D6+1D10)
DEFENSE: Parry +4 (6D8+1D10), Block +4 (7D10)
DUELING: Lunge +3 (5D8+1D10), Riposte +4 (6D10+1D8)
INTERACTION: Inspire +1 (2D8+2D10), Negotiate +3 (6D10)
MILITARY: Brawl +3 (4D8+1D10), Aim +4 (6D10+1D6, pistol), Strategy
+1 (2D6+1D10) NATURE: Explore +1 (3D10)
OBSERVATION: Intuition +1 (3D10)
STREETWISE: Carouse +1 (3D10)
EQUIPMENT: Rapier (1D8 sword), courtly outfit, courtier gloves (Inspire
1D10 charm), bodice (Block 1d10 charm), chopines (Negotiate 1D10 charm),
“Murr” (purebred cat) PASSIONS: Pride (D12), Country (D10), Family (D8),
Wealth (D6)
LANGUAGES: Varendish, Gallinean
STYLE MANEUVERS: Social Reliability (spend 1 to reroll Interaction),
Aggressive Deflection (spend 2 to maximize Parry), Down ‘n’ Dirty
Fighting (when you have one hand free, spend 1 to add Brawl to Riposte)
STYLE POINTS: 3 (maximum 6)

Ingunn, a Varendish noble, is a patriot first and foremost – at least
when her pride doesn’t get in the way. Ambitious and thoughtful, she is
a planner who involves herselves in a wide variety of schemes and plots.
While most are practical nature, some are more personal and are aimed at
avenging a perceived or actual sleight.

She will particularly try to humble any cavalier who dares to show her
up in public, be that by turning down an offer employment, thwarting her
plans, or simply knowing or achieving more than her.

Von Sicherheim is a tall, 35-year-old Varendian of pale complexion and a
long mane of red hair. She has a large scar from a rifle wound on her
left shoulder, but has no qualms about displaying this trophy of war
even at formal occasions.

Opponent Groups

Certain types of opponents are usually encountered in mixed groups. Here
are several that you can use or adapt when you need them.

In the listings that follow, (P) means one of these for every player
character in your group, and (P/2) means one for every two player
characters. Listed Ideals can be used once each per group, in addition
to the Passions of each member; remember that Passions and Ideals can
reflect either an inclination toward a value or against one.

For more information using on scope, attributes, and assets, see the
section on Organizations.

Bandit Gang

Encountered primarily on the open road, these bandits are often, but not
always, mounted on horses.

-   (P) Greedy Bandits

-   2 Grizzled Veterans
-   1 Rogue Highwayman
-   IDEALS: Wealth (D8), Justice (D6)
-   SCOPE: Immediate (D0); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D6, Resources D8,
    Secrets D10;** Assets:** Command +1, Authority +1, Revenue +1
-   REWARDS: 1D0 Reward (bounty) per Bandit, 1D6 Reward (bounty) per
    Veteran, 1D8 Reward (bounty) per Rogue Highwayman

Lutetian Watch Patrol

This can be any city watch or group of guards. Double their numbers if
you want them to be more than an inconvenience for your cavaliers.

-   (P) Lutetian Watch Grunts

-   1 Lutetian Watch Officer
-   IDEALS: Loyalty (D8), Country (D6)
-   SCOPE: Local (D6); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D10, Resources D8, Secrets
    D6; ASSETS: Alliances +2, Command +1, Authority +2

Den of Thieves

A loose assortment of ne’er-do-wells and cutthroats who would sell out
their own grandmothers if there were profit in it.

-   (P) Street Toughs

-   (P) Desperate Convicts

-   (P/2) Devious Smugglers
-   1 Dishonest Mechanician
-   IDEALS: Wealth (D10), Justice (D8), Pride (D6)
-   SCOPE: Immediate (D0); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D6, Resources D10,
    Secrets D8; ASSETS: Alliances +1, Intrigue +1, Holdings +1, Revenue
    +1, Technology +1
-   REWARDS: 3D6 Barter Dice per Smuggler, 6 Clockwork Gears per
    Mechanician

Military Unit

These will most commonly be soldiers in the Gallinean army, if your
cavaliers are in Gallinea. Sometimes they’re encountered in a bar.

-   (P) Infantry Recruits

-   (P/2) Cavalry Officers
-   1 Grizzled Veteran (sergeant)
-   1 Modern Sergents-Majors Généraux
-   IDEALS: Country (D8), Loyalty (D6)
-   SCOPE: Provincial (D8); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D10, Resources D8,
    Secrets D6; ASSETS: Alliances +2, Command +2, Authority +2, Holdings
    +1

Moralistic Mob

Using the pretext of righteous indignation, a mob of angry commoners has
been stirred up and are looking for victims. And there’s an immigrant
couple straight ahead – carrying a small baby! Oh no!

-   2 (P) Angry Mob Members
-   1 Dangerous Revolutionary, Grizzled Veteran, Asrian Priestess, or
    Petty Noble
-   IDEALS: Church (D8), Justice (D6)
-   SCOPE: Immediate (D0); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D6, Resources D8,
    Secrets D10; ASSETS: Mysteries +1, Popularity +2

Noble’s Entourage

Traveling in style in one or more carriages, nobles may sometimes find
themselves at the mercy of a bandit group – requiring the cavaliers to
take sides.

-   (P/2) Gossiping Courtiers
-   (P/2) Grizzled Veterans
-   2 Boorish Fops
-   1 Fastidious Physicker or Longsuffering Tutor
-   1 Petty Noble
-   IDEALS: Family (D10), Pride (D8), Wealth (D6)
-   SCOPE: Provincial (D8); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D8, Resources D10,
    Secrets D6; ASSETS: Alliances +1, Intrigue +1, Holdings +2, Revenue
    +1
-   REWARDS: 1D6 Reward (coins) per Veteran, 1D8 Reward (coins) per Fop,
    Courtier, Physicker, or Tutor, 1D10 Reward (coins) per Noble; or,
    1D10 Reward (gratitude for rescue) per player character, delivered 2
    days later

Pirate Crew

These are the crew of a small sailing ship. For larger ships, add more
Privateer Captains as officers, and create a major character as the
captain.

-   (P) Bloodthirsty Buccaneers

-   1 Privateer Captain
-   IDEALS: Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)
-   SCOPE: Immediate (D0);** Attributes:** Prestige D6, Resources D8,
    Secrets D10; ASSETS: Command +1, Intrigue +2, Holdings +1, Revenue
    +1
-   REWARDS: 1D10 Reward (bounty) for Captain, 1D6 Stolen Cargo per
    Buccaneer

Rival Cavaliers

This group may be other members of the Queen’s Cavaliers, or their
equivalents in a parallel organization.

-   (P) Brash Fencers, Cavalry Officers, Grizzled Veterans, or Petty
        Nobles

-   IDEALS: Pride (D10), Loyalty (D8), Country (D6)
-   SCOPE: Immediate (D0);** Attributes:** Prestige D10, Resources D6,
    Secrets D8; ASSETS: Alliances +1, Intrigue +1, Authority +1,
    Popularity +1

Small Marketplace

Throughout both large cities and tiny villages, small marketplaces are
centers of commerce featuring goods for sale. These are the kinds of
people usually found in a smaller marketplace; double or triple the
number for larger bazaars.

-   (P) Laconic Farmers

-   (P/2) Bedraggled Urchins
-   (P/2) Wary Shopkeepers
-   2 Lutetian Watch Grunts
-   2 Street Toughs
-   1 Fastidious Physicker, Dishonest Mechanician, or Secretive
    Soothsayer
-   IDEALS: Wealth (D6)
-   SCOPE: Immediate (D0); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D8, Resources D10,
    Secrets D6; ASSETS: Holdings +1, Popularity +1, Revenue +2,
    Technology +1
-   REWARDS: 2D6 Barter (goods) per Shopkeeper, 1D8 Reward (coins) per
    Physicker, Mechanician, or Soothsayer

Smuggling Ring

Operating in the shadows to avoid taxes or other legal entanglements,
these secretive smugglers look to optimize profits.

-   (P) Elissian Colonists

-   (P/2) Street Toughs
-   (P/2) Devious Smugglers
-   (P/2) Wary Shopkeepers
-   IDEALS: Wealth (D8), Loyalty (D6)
-   SCOPE: Local (D6); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets
    D10; ASSETS: Alliances +1, Intrigue +2, Revenue +2, Technology +1
-   REWARDS: 1D6 Barter (contraband) per member of the smuggling ring

Tavern Brawl

Barroom fights break out quite often due to the presence of alcohol and
surly people. Here are the typical opponents you might find in such a
drunken melee.

-   (P) Drunken Brawlers

-   (P/2) Boorish Fops
-   (P/2) Grizzled Veterans
-   1 Gossiping Courtier
-   1 Brash Fencer
-   1 Gregarious Barkeep
-   IDEALS: Pride (D8), Lust (D6)
-   SCOPE: Immediate (D6); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D8, Resources D6,
    Secrets D10; ASSETS: Intrigue +1, Holdings +1, Popularity +2,
    Revenue +1
-   REWARDS: 2D6 Reward (coins) per Barkeep, 6D6 Barter (alcohol) behind
    the bar

Treasonous Conspiracy

Those who plot against the crown can be a very mixed lot of opponents.

-   (P/2) Angry Mob Members
-   (P/2) Street Thugs
-   (P) Dangerous Revolutionaries

-   (P/2) Gossiping Courtiers or Boorish Fops
-   1 Petty Noble
-   IDEALS: Justice (D8), Pride (D6)
-   SCOPE: Local (D6); ATTRIBUTES: Prestige D6, Resources D8, Secrets
    D10; ATTRIBUTES: Alliances +1, Intrigue +2, Authority +1, Popularity
    +1
-   REWARDS: 1D6 Reward (bounty) per Revolutionary, Courtier, or Fop;
    4D6 Rewards (coins) per Noble; 1D12 Reward (bounty) for list of
    conspirators

Animals

_The Queen’s Cavaliers_ isn’t really a game about fighting wolves,
crocodiles, or housecats – but just in case, here’s how animals work in
the game.

Animal Attributes and Specialties

While humans have Verve, Affinity, and Guile as attributes, animals are
defined by the attributes Instinct, Ferocity, and Training. These can
range from D0 to D12, and aren’t assigned as D10/D8/D6 as for human
characters.

Animals don’t have skills, but each specialty is grouped under an
appropriate attribute. There is one specialty, Perceive, that is
classified as any attribute, and the Initiative skill has three new
Specialties that don’t apply to humans.

Instinct

Instinctive specialties are those related to the survival of the animal,
such as self-preservation or locating food.

DODGE: This is used by most animals to avoid attacks.

EXPLORE: The Explore specialty is used for tracking, finding shelter,
locating edible plants, or finding water.

FEINT: An animal will use Feint primarily to distract, although there
are some faster animals which use it for attack.

FLEE (INITIATIVE SPECIALTY): For 1 Initiative Point, the animal can Walk
to an unoccupied area, and for 2 Initiative Points, it can Run to an
unoccupied area. None of the human options for Initiative are available,
such as Interpose, Reprise, or Seize the Initiative.

PERCEIVE: This can fall under any animal Attribute. Animals use the
skill just as humans do, but they often have senses that can be added on
as an Item Die.

PROWL: Animals that sneak up on targets, or hide from predators, are
using the Prowl specialty.

Ferocity Specialties

The Ferocity attribute is a measure of an animal’s aggression,
determination, and fortitude. They’re primarily used offensively.

BRAWL: Animals use the Brawl specialty to grab hold of things, knock
them down, or pin them to the ground.

FIGHT (INITIATIVE SPECIALTY): For 1 Initiative Point, the animal can
Seize the Initiative and immediately make a Lunge attack. For 2
Initiative Points, it can Seize the Initiative and make a Brawl or
Riposte attack. It can’t use Initiative Points for any other purpose.

INSPIRE: Pack alphas often are able to Inspire bravery in their
packmates, but most commonly this specialty is used to Inspire fear and
scare off other creatures.

LUNGE: This is an aggressive attack using the natural weapons possessed
by the animal, such as claws, sharp teeth, or horns. Those natural
weapons add their Weapon die to Lunge attacks.

PERCEIVE: This can fall under any animal Attribute. Animals use the
skill just as humans do, but they often have senses that can be added on
as an Item Die.

RIPOSTE: Animals don’t Parry attacks, but they might be able to Riposte
on a good Dodge roll or by using Initiative Points.

Training Specialties

Training specialties are things that animals must be taught or trained
to do. This usually means being taught by humans, but sometimes wild
animals are taught by other animals of the same type.

ARTS: While very few animals actually create works of art, many birds
will use the Art specialty to sing.

BLOCK: Sometimes an animal will have a tough enough hide or shell to be
able to use the Block specialty. This can also be used by animals that
are actually wearing some kind of armor, from horse barding to spiked
collars. The animal can add the shell or armor’s Armor Die to its Block
pool.

GUARD (INITIATIVE): For 1 Initiative Point, the animal can Interpose
itself to prevent a creature from entering its area. For 2 Initiative
Points, the animal can make a Lunge, Brawl, or Feint attack against a
creature that enters its area. The animal can’t spend its Initiative
Points on anything else.

HUSBANDRY: This specialty is primarily possessed by working animals,
such as dogs that herd sheep or oxen that pull plows.

LARCENY: Only a very few animals, such as ravens, can actually use
Larceny to steal objects. Naturally, animals can’t make use of the black
market.

PERCEIVE: This can fall under any animal Attribute. Animals use the
skill just as humans do, but they often have senses that can be added on
as an Item Die.

Scale

Instead of a Competency Die, animals have a Scale Die that relates to
how large they are. Scale also determines the yield limit and wound
limit for the animal. For yield limits, “half Ferocity” means “half of
the die size”, and “Ferocity” means “the die size.”

_(table) Scale of Animals_ | Scale | Scale Die | Yield Limit | Wound
Limit | | ——— | ——— | —————— | ————————————————- | | Pocket | -- | 1 | 1
(Dead) | | Pet | 1D0 | 2 + half Ferocity | 1 (Dying) | | Companion | 1D6
| 3 + half Ferocity | 2 (Drop 1, Dying) | | Human | 1D8 | 4 + half
Ferocity | 3 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Dying) | | Mount | 1D10 | 5 + Ferocity | 4
(Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying) | | Mammoth | 1D12 | 6 + Ferocity | 5
(Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying) | | Behemoth | 2D12 | 7 + twice
Ferocity | 6 (Drop 0, Drop 0, Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying) |

POCKET SCALE: This is the smallest category of animal – one that could
be carried in a pocket. Examples include a rat, a songbird, or a
tarantula.

PET SCALE: A pet-scale animal is around the size of a housecat or a
small dog. Too big for a pocket, it can still be carried in one hand.
Some examples are a trained parrot, a rooster, or a rabbit.

COMPANION SCALE: A companion-scale animal isn’t quite as large as a
human, but rather about the size of a medium to large dog. It takes both
hands or arms to carry a companion-scale animal. Examples include a
goat, a hunting dog, or a venomous snake.

HUMAN SCALE: Human-scale animals are approximately the size and weight
of an adult human being. Some examples are a war dog, a ram, or a
constrictor snake.

MOUNT SCALE: Animals that are large enough to be ridden by a single
human, or perhaps two or three with a tight squeeze, are mount scale.
Examples include a warhorse, a bear, or a cow.

MAMMOTH SCALE: Even larger than mount scale, mammoth-scale animals
include orca, hordes, and elephants. They take up pretty much a
normal-sized room.

BEHEMOTH SCALE: The largest of animals are behemoth scale. There are few
of these left since the days of dragons (or dinosaurs; nobody’s quite
sure which it is). The most notable examples of behemoth-scale animals
are found in the oceans – such as a great whale or a giant squid.

Hordes

A horde is a swarm or pack of similar animals that work as one unit for
game purposes. If 300 rats flood out into the sewers, you don’t really
want to make individual rolls for all of them whenever they attack or
defend.

A horde has an additional Attribute, called Horde. This is a measure of
the horde’s consistency and cooperation. All Horde attributes start at
D12.

The horde uses its Horde attribute as a Bonus Die in all of its die
pools. However, when the horde takes wounds, the Horde die decreases to
a D10, a D8, a D6, a D0, and then disperses. This replaces the normal
Drop/Dying/Dead effects of wounds.

Most hordes are mammoth scale, although hordes of larger animals (such
as sharks) might be behemoth scale, and smaller hordes such as a swarm
of honeybees could be merely mount scale.

Other Animal Qualities

Many of the game qualities of animals are similar to those of human
characters. These are some of the ways they differ.

Movement

A human can Walk 1 area, or Run 2 areas. Some animals are faster than
this, and some are slower. The Walk and Run qualities tell you how many
areas the animal can move using each type of action.

Some animals have special types of movement that humans can’t do, such
as flying, swimming, or climbing. These allow an animal to move between
Areas in ways that most humans can’t.

Senses

Many animals have superior senses to humans; these are shown by the
Senses quality. When using the specific type of sense, the animal can
add that die on as an Item Die to Perceive rolls.

In addition, animals can use their best Attribute for calculating their
Perceive pools, as Perceive is associated with Instinct, Ferocity, and
Training.

Weapons and Armor

Whether an animal has built-in weapons or armor – such as sharp teeth or
a hard carapace – or is wearing an actual weapon or armor – barding, a
spiked collar, and so on – it works the same way: the Item Die can be
added to whatever skills are specified.

Maneuvers

Animals don’t gain style points. They don’t need them, so don’t spend
any of their success points to buy style points. They don’t even know
any style maneuvers anyway.

Instead they have conditional maneuvers that just happen whenever the
condition is fulfilled.

For example, a great shark has the following maneuver: Blood in the
Water (when attacking a target with at least 1 wound, add Perceive +1D12
to Lunge). This happens whenever it attacks a wounded target. No style
points, no limited uses – just whenever the condition applies, it comes
into play.

Impetus

Animals don’t have passions. They’re just animals, and concepts like
Justice or Faith don’t really mean much to them. Instead, they have an
Impetus – or maybe more than one Impetus.

These are the urges that drive an animal to action, much as passions do,
but on a much more primal level.

Impetus types include:

CURIOSITY: The animal just wants to know what’s going on over there, or
across the way, or what’s behind the door. And it’s not like Curiosity
ever killed any animals, right?

HUNGER: All animals are concerned with eating, but those with a Hunger
Impetus will prioritize food and eating over nearly every other
activity.

LOYALTY: An animal with a Loyalty Impetus is a faithful companion to a
human, usually its trainer or owner. They’re a human’s best friend.

OBEDIENCE: A domesticated animal with the Obedience Impetus follows
commands given to it. Not because it even likes the person giving the
commands, but rather because it’s that well trained.

PACK: The Pack Impetus represents those animals that stick together as a
group, usually in some kind of hierarchy or family units.

PREDATORY: A Predatory animal loves to hunt. Not just because it needs
food, but because it’s actually a vicious hunter that likes to track
down its prey.

SURVIVAL: This is the most basic Impetus: the animal wants to stay
alive. It will take any action necessary to do so, with the only
exception being if it has a higher rated Impetus of another kind.

TERRITORY: A territorial animal will likely attack, or at least attempt
to frighten off, other creatures that come within its territory.

You can use Impetus as you would use Passions – an animal can use each
Impetus it possesses once in a story, and then it loses that specific
Impetus. You can only use an Impetus if the animal’s actions are
directly related to that Impetus.

For example, if an animal has a Survival (D6) Impetus, you can add that
Bonus Die once to a Dodge pool or other defensive roll. A Predatory
Impetus could be used for tracking or spotting something, an Obedience
Impetus for staying alert, or a Curiosity Impetus for staying hidden
while investigating some shiny new thing.

Common Animals

These are some of the animals that players in _The Queen’s Cavaliers_
are most likely to encounter.

Cat

_Pet-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D8, Ferocity D6, Training D0
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Fight +1 (2D6)
WALK: 1 Area, Climb 1 Area
RUN: 2 Areas, Climb 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D8), Explore +1 (2D8), Feint +1 (2D8), Perceive
(1D8+1D6), Prowl +1 (2D8)
FEROCITY: Brawl (1D6), Inspire (1D6), Lunge (1D6), Riposte +1 (2D6)
SENSES: Smell +1D6, Hearing +1D6
IMPETUS: Curiosity (D8), Territory (D6)

This is your standard housecat or alleycat. It purrs when it’s happy.

Dog, common

_Companion-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D6, Ferocity D6, Training D0
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Flee +1 (2D6)
WALK: Walk 1 Area
RUN: 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D6), Explore +1 (2D6), Perceive (2D6), Prowl +1
(2D6)
FEROCITY: Lunge (2D6)
SENSES: Smell +1D6, Hearing +1D6
BITE: Lunge +1D6
IMPETUS: Loyalty (D6)

This is a typical, average dog. Not too big, not too small; they make
decent watchdogs or hunting dogs. Its bark is probably worse than its
bite.

Dog, companion

_Pet-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D6, Ferocity D0, Training D8
YIELD LIMIT: 2
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Protect (1D8)
WALK: 1 Area
RUN: 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D6), Explore +1 (2D6)
FEROCITY: Lunge (1D6)
TRAINING: Perceive (1D8+1D6)
SENSES: Smell +1D6
BITE: Lunge +1D6
IMPETUS: Loyalty (D6)

A companion dog is one that’s been bred to be small and cute, rather
than big and fierce. These are most popular among nobles.

Dog, guard

_Companion-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D6, Ferocity D8, Training D10
YIELD LIMIT: 4
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Protect +1 (2D10)
WALK: 1 Area
RUN: 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge (1D6), Explore +2 (3D8)
FEROCITY: Brawl +1 (2D8), Inspire +1 (2D8), Lunge+ +1 (2D8)
TRAINING: Block (1D10+1D6), Perceive +2 (3D10+1D8)
SENSES: Smell +1D8, Hearing +1D8
BITE: Lunge +1D6, +++: Knockdown
SPIKED COLLAR: Block +1D6, +++++: Inflict 1 Wound
IMPETUS: Obedience (D6)

A guard dog is a larger canine that’s been trained not just to make
noise, but to attack those who come near the territory it guards.

Falcon, trained

_Pet-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D8, Ferocity D6, Training D8
YIELD LIMIT: 3
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Protect +1 (2D8)
WALK: 0 Areas, Fly 2 Areas
RUN: 1 Area, Fly 4 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D8), Explore +1 (2D8), Prowl +1 (2D8)
FEROCITY: Lunge +1 (3D6)
TRAINING: Perceive +2 (4D8)
SENSES: Vision +1D8
BEAK: Lunge +1D6
IMPETUS: Obedience (D8), Predatory (D6)

Falconers train these birds to hunt, and it’s become quite the hobby of
the well-to-do in Gallinea.

Horde of Rats

_Mammoth-scale horde_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D8, Ferocity D8, Training D0, Horde D12
YIELD LIMIT: 14
WOUND LIMIT: 5 (Horde D10, D8, D6, D0, Dispersed)
INITIATIVE: Flee (Horde + 1D8)
WALK: 0 Areas
RUN: 1 Area, Climb 1 Area
INSTINCT: Dodge (Horde + 1D8), Perceive (Horde + 2D8), Prowl +1
(Horde + 2D8)
FEROCITY: Brawl (Horde + 1D8), Lunge (Horde + 2D8)
TRAINING: Block (Horde)
SENSES: Smell +1D8
BITES: Lunge +1D8
IMPETUS: Hunger (D8), Pack (D6)

A single rat isn’t a big threat. A horde of rats that can fill an entire
room? That’s a different story. Usually rats will flee at the first sign
of danger, but if they get hungry enough they can tear a person to
shreds. Urban myths speak of someone known as the Queen of Rats who
lives in the sewers beneath Lutetia, but that’s just an old tale meant
to scare children, isn’t it…?

Draft horse

_Mount-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D0, Ferocity D0, Training D6
YIELD LIMIT: 6
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Protect (1D6)
WALK: 1 Area
RUN: 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge (0)
FEROCITY: Lunge (1D8)
TRAINING: Block (1D6), Husbandry +1 (2D6), Perceive (1D6)
HOOVES: Lunge +1D8

Draft horses are used on farms to pull plows or wagons. They are large
and not very fast, but can be quite sturdy. Some of them even look
vaguely yellow.

Riding horse

_Mount-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D6, Ferocity D6, Training D8
YIELD LIMIT: 9
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Protect (1D8)
WALK: 2 Areas
RUN: 3 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge (1D6)
FEROCITY: Lunge (2D6)
TRAINING: Block (1D8), Perceive (1D8)
HOOVES: Lunge +1D6
IMPETUS: Obedience (D6)

This is a standard, fast horse favored by city folk. It’s not
particularly good in a fight, but it can usually get you somewhere
quickly.

Warhorse

_Mount-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D6, Ferocity D8, Training D10
YIELD LIMIT: 10
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Protect +1 (2D10)
WALK: 1 Area
RUN: 3 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge (1D6), Explore (1D6)
FEROCITY: Inspire +1 (2D8), Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6)
TRAINING: Block +1 (2D10+1D8), Husbandry (1D10), Perceive (1D10)
BARDING: Block +1d8
HOOVES: Lunge +1D6, +++: Knockdown
MANEUVER: Trample (when attacking a smaller scale creature with
hooves, add Scale +1D10 to Lunge)
IMPETUS: Obedience (D6)

A warhorse is specifically trained for battle. It usually will wear
barding (horse armor) and is popular among all soldiers, but primarily
used by the cavalry or by officers.

Parrot, trained

_Pet-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D6, Ferocity D0, Training D6
YIELD LIMIT: 2
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dying)
INITIATIVE: Protect +1 (2D6)
WALK: 0 Areas, Fly 1 Area
RUN: 1 Area, Fly 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D6), Feint +1 (2D6), Perceive +1 (3D6)
TRAINING: Arts +1 (2D6), Larceny +1 (2D6)
SENSES: Vision +1D6
MANEUVER: Distraction (when mimicking a sound, add Arts +1D6 to
Feint)
IMPETUS: Loyalty (D6)

Pirates love these things. Originally from the jungles of the Farthest
South, they can be trained to imitate human voices.

Rat

_Pocket-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D8, Ferocity D6, Training D0
YIELD LIMIT: 1
WOUND LIMIT: 1 (Dead)
INITIATIVE: Fight (1D6)
WALK: 1 Area, Climb 1 Area, Swim 1 Area
RUN: 2 Areas, Climb 2 Areas, Swim 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D8), Perceive (1D8+1D6), Prowl +1 (2D8)
SENSES: Smell +1D6, Hearing +1D6
BITE: Feint +1D6, ++++: Inflict 1 Wound
IMPETUS: Hunger (D8), Survival (D6)

Here’s that single rat by itself. You probably won’t get hurt by it.
Just pray to Essere it’s not carrying some dreadful plague…

Shark, great

_Mount-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D8, Ferocity D12, Training D0
YIELD LIMIT: 12
WOUND LIMIT: 4 (Drop 1, Drop 2, Drop 4, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Fight +1 (2D12)
WALK: 0 Areas, Swim 1 Area
RUN: 0 Areas, Swim 3 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D8), Prowl +1 (2D8)
FEROCITY: Inspire +1 (2D12), Lunge (2D12+1D10), Perceive (1D12+1D10)
TRAINING: Block (2D8)
SENSES: Smell +1D10
TEETH: Lunge +1D10
ROUGH HIDE: Block +2D8
MANEUVER: Blood in the Water (when attacking a target with at least
1 wound, add Perceive +1D12 to Lunge)
IMPETUS: Predatory (D8), Hunger (D6)

Huge, hungry sharks are a great reason to stay out of the ocean. Many
sailors have met a grisly fate when falling overboard, especially if
they’re already wounded.

Snake, venomous

_Companion-scale animal_

ATTRIBUTES: Instinct D6, Ferocity D8, Training D0
YIELD LIMIT: 4
WOUND LIMIT: 2 (Drop 1, Dying)
INITIATIVE: Fight +1 (2D8)
WALK: 1 Area
RUN: 2 Areas
INSTINCT: Dodge +1 (2D6), Feint +1 (3D6), Prowl +1 (2D6)
FEROCITY: Lunge +1 (2D8+1D6), Perceive +1 (3D8), Riposte +2
(3D8+1D6)
SENSES: Smell +1D8
FANGS: Lunge, Feint, Riposte +1D6, +++: Inflict 1 Wound
IMPETUS: Territory (D6)

This is a pretty scary snake. You really don’t want to be bit by it.
