# Style Maneuvers

This is a summary of all the style maneuvers available to player
characters. Each class and nationality choice gives players access to a
different set of maneuvers; these are the only ones that can be chosen
at character creation. 

## Types of Style Maneuvers

There are three types of Style Maneuvers: reroll maneuvers, maximize
maneuvers, and conditional maneuvers.

### Reroll Maneuvers

**A reroll maneuver lets you reroll your entire dice pool.** You can
do this immediately after you roll, or you can do it after your opponent
rolls. You ignore your original results and only keep the rerolled
version.

Rerolling costs one Style Point, and you can repeat it if you have
enough Style Points.

### Maximize Maneuvers

**A maximize maneuver sets the value of one die in your pool to its
maximum value.** You set that die aside and turn it to its maximum
value, before you roll. For example, if you maximize a D10, you set the
value to a 10. Then you roll your dice and calculate your result as if
the maximized value were one that you rolled.

The die you maximize must be one you include in your dice pool from
the associated specialty or item die. If you have a pool that consists
of 1D8 (Verve) + 1D6 (Competency) + 2D8 (Lunge) + 1D10 (Weapon Die) +
1D12 (Advantage Die), you can use a "maximize Lunge die" maneuver only
to maximize one of the D8s from Lunge.

Maximizing a die costs two Style Points, and you can only have one
maximized die in any dice pool. You can't a maximize maneuver after you
roll.

### Conditional Maneuvers

**A conditional maneuver has a specific condition that must be met in
order for you to use it. When you do so, you add the dice from one
source to a different dice pool.** Adding the dice from a second
specialty doesn't give you the Attribute Die, Competency Die, or Item
Die from the second dice pool, but it does give you a number of dice
equal to your specialty ranks. The size of each such die is determined
by your attribute; if you have +2 Lunge and your Verve is D8, then you
add +2D8 to another pool as directed by the maneuver.

If you don't have any ranks at all in a specialty but you're
Competent with the appropriate Skill, you can instead add your
Competency Die as another Specialty die. If you aren't Competent with
the skill at all, you probably made a poor choice for a style maneuver;
you can add 1D6 to the roll instead as a Specialty Die.

Using a conditional maneuver requires one Style Point. If you meet
the criteria for multiple conditional maneuvers and you want to spend
the Style Points, you use as many such maneuvers as you like on one die
roll. You need to decide before you roll, not after.

When you add dice from one specialty to another roll, that second
roll also becomes a pool of that type in addition to its own. In other
words, if you have a maneuver that lets you "add Husbandry dice to a
Lunge" roll and you spend the Style Point to use it, the roll is both a
Lunge roll and a Husbandry roll. This can allow for adding in additional
style maneuvers as a combo.

## Maneuver List

  - **A Mind for Money:** When sums of at least 1 crown are at stake, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Negotiate roll
  - **Aggressive Assault:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Lunge die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Aggressive Deflection:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Parry die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Aggressive Fisticuffs:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Brawl die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Aggressive Fulmination:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Blackpowder die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Aggressive Mockery:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Banter die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Anatomical Studies:** When working in a well-equipped surgical theatre, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Surgery roll
  - **Anti-Toxins:** When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend 1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll
  - **Apologetics:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Aristocratic Bearing:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Social Rank die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Astrological Charts:** When you know the date and location of a subject's birth, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Portents roll
  - **Automatic Fire:** When using a clockwork weapon, spend 1 Style Point to add Clockworks dice to an Aim roll
  - **Ballistics:** When firing a cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll
  - **Beating a High Horse:** When mocking someone of higher social rank than you, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Banter roll
  - **Better Not Pout:** When giving or showing toys to children, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to an Inspire roll
  - **Bird Calls:** When working with birds, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Husbandry roll
  - **Bombadier:** When attacking with a Blackpowder weapon, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll
  - **Books of Faith:** When dealing with someone of the samefaith as you, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll
  - **Boundless Creativity:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Arts die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Brilliant Analysis:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Broadsides:** When firing a ship-mounted cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Blackpowder roll
  - **Camouflage Mastery:** When moving though the wilderness, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Prowl roll
  - **Cartography:** When navigating using a map, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to an Explore roll
  - **Chemical Calculations:** When working in a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Brew roll
  - **Combat Pantomime:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Block roll
  - **Comfortable Debauchery:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Carouse die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Commanding Presence:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Confidence Game:** When engaging in a swindle, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Deceive roll
  - **Confident Fencing:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll
  - **Criminology:** When investigating a crime scene, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll
  - **Cunning Camouflage:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Prowl die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Cunning Erudition:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Cunning Evasion:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Dodge die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Cunning Misdirection:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Feint die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Cunning Prevarication:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Deceive die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Cunning Thievery:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Larceny die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Curse Your Betrayal:** When defending against a feint, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to a Parry roll
  - **Daring Chirurgery:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Surgery die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Deadly Toxicology:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Poison die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Deflecting Shield:** When using a buckler to parry, spend 1 Style Point to add Block dice to a Parry roll
  - **Diplomatic Immunity:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Divine Protection:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition to a Dodge roll
  - **Do You Expect Me To Talk?:** When conversing with other spies, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Deceive roll
  - **Don't You Know Who I Am?:** When speaking with someone of Artisan social rank or lower, spend 1 Style Point to add Social Rank dice to a Negotiate roll
  - **Down-n-Dirty Fighting:** When making a riposte while you have one hand free, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Riposte roll
  - **Dress to Impress:** While wearing an outfit you created yourself, spend 1 Style Point to add Weave dice to a Negotiate roll
  - **Drowning My Sorrows:** When fighting in a tavern or while drunk, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Brawl roll
  - **Drunken Stagger:** When drunk, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Emergency Assistance:** When treating someone who is suffering from exposure to the elements, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Treat roll
  - **Enhanced Enchantments:** Spend 2 Style points to set the value of one Charm die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Envenomed Blade:** When using a poisoned knife, spend 1 Style Point to add Poison dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Epidemiology:** When diagnosing or treating an unknown illness, spend 1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to a Treat roll
  - **Equestrienne:** When mounted on a horse you care for yourself, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Fashion\! Dodge to the Left:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Fast-Talking:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Feeling No Pain:** When you've been drinking, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Block roll
  - **First Aid:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Flamboyant Couture:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Weave die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Focused Attention:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Folk Remedies:** When you have access to a garden, forest, or herb collection, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Treat roll
  - **For The Defense:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Forensic Analysis:** When using a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll
  - **From the Heart:** When performing or displaying a work of art, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to an Inspire roll
  - **Great White Hunter:** When attacking an animal, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll
  - **Honed Instincts:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Intuition die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Honest Dealer:** When negotiating in good faith, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to a Negotiate roll
  - **How Dare You:** When attacking someone who has already damaged you in the current combat, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Riposte roll
  - **Huntsman's Best Friend:** When traveling with a hunting dog, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to an Explore roll
  - **I'm a Lover, not a Fighter:** When being attacked by someone whom you find attractive, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Dodge roll
  - **I'm Innocent, Innocent\!:** When trying to convince someone of your innocence, spend 1 Style Point to add Intuition dice to an Inspire roll
  - **I'm Too Pretty to Die\!:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Dodge roll
  - **In Costume:** When wearing a disguise or costume, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Deceive roll
  - **Incoming Fire:** When avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1 Style Point to add Aim dice to a Dodge roll
  - **International Trade:** When buying or selling wares that have been imported or exported, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice a Negotiate roll
  - **Into the Rigging:** When on a ship or a boat, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Inventive Mathematics:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Calculus die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **It's My Creation:** When repairing or using a device that you invented, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Clockworks roll
  - **Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll
  - **Learned Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Knowledge roll
  - **Legal Precedents:** When speaking in court, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll
  - **Linguistics:** When trying to understand something in a language you don't know, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Scholarship roll
  - **Longbow Hunter:** When using a bow outdoors, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Aim roll
  - **Lost in the Crowd:** When in an area with more than 3 other people, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Manners Count:** When speaking to someone of at least Artisan rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Negotiate roll.
  - **Martial Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll
  - **Measuring is Everything:** When following a recipe or a cookbook while cooking, spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to an Arts roll
  - **Miniaturization:** When creating devices of Portable size or smaller, spend 1 Style Point to add Perceive dice to a Clockworks roll
  - **Mistress of Fashion:** When creating clothing or accoutrements with a base cost of D6 or higher, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Weave roll
  - **Mostly Harmless:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Mounted Combatant:** When using a weapon with the Mounted quality while mounted, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Natural Cover:** When in an area with vegetation, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Natural Flavorings:** When using or neutralizing ingested toxins, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Poison roll
  - **Naval Hilt:** When using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Parry roll
  - **Never Again:** When attacking someone who has already damaged one of your allies in the current combat, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Nomadic Archery:** When firing a bow, spend 1 Style Point to add Perceive dice to an Aim roll
  - **Optical Focus:** When using a device to help you see, spend 1 Style Point to add Clockworks dice to a Perceive roll
  - **Parrot's Nest:** When looking at things more than one area away, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll
  - **Parrying Shield:** When using a buckler to block, spend 1 Style Point to add Parry dice to a Block roll
  - **Polite Fictions:** When speaking with someone of at least Noble social rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Deceive roll
  - **Powdersmith:** When creating or repairing a device with a blackpowder flintlock power source, a phlogistone furnace power source, or an
  - explosion component, spend 1 Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to a Clockworks roll
  - **Practiced Alchemy:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Brew die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Practiced Crafting:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Practiced Cultivation:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Husbandry die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Practiced Diplomacy:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Practiced Manners:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Practiced Retort:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Riposte die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Practiced Sharpshooting:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Precise Bludgeoning:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Cudgel weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Precise Swordplay:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Sword weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Precision Mechanics:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Clockwork weapon die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Reconnaissance:** When trying to spot other people, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll
  - **Refined Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll
  - **Relentless Pathfinding:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Explore die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Reliable Senses:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll
  - **Rites of the Moon:** When dealing with someone of the Devran faith, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to an Inspire roll
  - **Ritual Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll
  - **Rural Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll
  - **Saw That Coming:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Portents dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Scalpel's Cut:** When using a knife or chirurgeon's knives, spend 1 Style Point to add Surgery dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Second Opinion:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll
  - **Shady Negotiations:** When dealing with criminals or conspirators, spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Negotiate roll
  - **Smuggler's Moon:** When in darkness or at night, spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Prowl roll
  - **Sniper:** When attacking from at least 3 areas away, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll
  - **Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll
  - **Speleology:** When prospecting or exploring in caves, spend 1 Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to an Explore roll
  - **Standing on the Shoulders of Giants:** When inventing a device in a well-equipped workshop, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Clockworks roll
  - **Strategic Maneuvers:** When commanding at least 3 troops, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Strategy roll
  - **Street Fighting:** When using a knife or a cudgel, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Strength in Conviction:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Student of Accents:** When trying to pass yourself off as someone from another nation, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Deceive roll
  - **Supercilious Vituperation:** When insulting someone who is competent with the Culture skill, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Banter roll
  - **Tactical Retreat:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Strategy dice to a Dodge roll
  - **That's Me In the Spotlight:** When talking with someone who doesn't share your religious beliefs, spend 1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to an Inspire roll
  - **The Horrors of War:** When talking about war or battle, spend 1 Style Point to add Block dice to an Inspire roll
  - **The Underground Economy:** When buying or selling on the black market, spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Larceny roll
  - **There's No Need for Violence:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll
  - **Trained Ear:** When listening to other people speaking, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Perceive roll
  - **Trained Endurance:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Block die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Trick Shot:** When using a bow or crossbow, spend 1 Style Point to add Feint dice to an Aim roll
  - **Twist the Knife:** When attacking with a knife that was hidden at the beginning of the fight, spend 1 Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Lunge roll
  - **Ubiquitous Shield:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Rigid Armor or Shield item die to its maximum value before rolling 
  - **Uncanny Prediction:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Portents die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Unorthodox Tactics:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Strategy die to its maximum value before rolling
  - **Urban Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll
  - **Verifiable Hypothesis:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll
  - **Well-Traveled:** When dealing with someone from a foreign culture, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Etiquette roll
  - **Yodeler:** When working with domesticated animals, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Husbandry roll
  - **You Can't Go Home Again:** When dealing with someone from your home country, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Deceive roll

## Gamemaster's Toolbox: New Style Maneuvers

As the Gamemaster, you can create new Style Maneuvers that can be chosen by your players.

**Reroll maneuvers** cost one Style Point and allow for one broad type
of roll to be rerolled. For example, you could create a maneuver that
allows a reroll on Wealth rolls, attack rolls with a rapier, or rolls
that use one of the character's passions.

**Maximize maneuvers** cost two Style Points and allow one specific kind
of die to be maximized. Any given pool can only have one maximized die.
Examples of appropriate maneuvers include maximizing the Mount die of a
mount or a specific weapon die, such as a pistol. Don't make the
maneuver too specific; that's what conditional maneuvers are for.

**Conditional maneuvers** cost one Style Point and let the character add
dice from one specialty to another roll, but only under certain
conditions. The conditions you choose should be fairly specific and not
overly broad, but they should also be something that a determined player
could use at least once per game session, if not more often.

**Initiative maneuvers** don't exist, period. There aren't any Charms or
Style Maneuvers that add to Initiative rolls. You probably shouldn't
invent any, either; that limitation is there for a reason. You can,
however, create conditional maneuvers that add Initiative specialties to
other dice rolls.

Finally, you need to decide which classes, nationalities, or other
groups have access to the new maneuver. Perhaps it's a lost sword
technique only taught to students of a retired blademaster, or it's
commonly practiced by adult members of a house of the Ifran desert. It's
possible you might decide that no groups can freely choose your new
maneuver, in which case players will need to pay the additional XP cost
when choosing it.

Players, you don't have the option to create your own Style Maneuvers
whenever you want -- but you can always suggest one to your Gamemaster and maybe
she'll like the idea\!
