## Class Descriptions

### The Duelist

A Duelist is a swashbuckling swordfighter who lives by her wits and her
skill at her blade. She may be a member of the Queen's Cavaliers, or a
rival organization, or may be a freelance fencer who runs her own
dueling school. Quite a few actors have been known to take up dueling as
well.

Duelist is appropriate to accompany any other class in *The Queen's
Cavalier.* As swordfighting is so prevalent in the game, the Duelist
class is a natural choice for most appropriate character concepts.
That's why they're presented out of alphabetical order here.

In other words, if you can't decide on a second class, choose Duelist.

**Suggested Classes:** Any

**Suggested Passions:** Any

#### Duelist Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Dueling, Military, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Defense (Parry +1, Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1,
Riposte +1, Feint +1), Streetwise (Banter +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible, Shield

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Swashbuckler outfit (cavalier hat, doublet, soldier's
gloves, breeches, boots, cape), buckler (Shield +1D8), rapier (Sword
+1D8)

#### Duelist Maneuvers

****Confident Fencing**:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll

**Deflecting Shield:** When using a Shield to parry, spend 1 Style Point
to add Block dice to a Parry roll

**Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

**Practiced Retort:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Riposte die to its maximum value before rolling

**Precise Swordplay: **Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Sword weapon die to its maximum value before rolling

### The Alchemist 

Using techniques perfected in the old Qartan Empire, Alchemists brew
potions, poisons, and antidotes based on scientific principles. They can
produce a variety of effects, ranging from healing to magical abilities.

Most Alchemists are successful merchants, many running small
apothecaries to vend their wares. 

**Suggested Classes:** Charlatan, Chirurgeon, Mechanician, Visionary,
Witch

****Suggested** Passions:** Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth

#### Alchemist Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Science

**Specialties:** Culture (Scholarship +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1),
Magicks (Brew +1), Medicine (Treat +1, Poison +1), Science (Calculus +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Artisan (D8)

**Bonus Gear:** Crafter outfit (artisan's beret, smock, craftsman's
gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), 8 supplies of alchemical ingredients,
2 doses of poison antidote, alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6)

#### Alchemist Maneuvers

**Anti-Toxins:** When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend
1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll

**Chemical Calculations:** When working in a well-equipped laboratory,
spend 1 Style Point to add Calculus dice to a Brew roll

**Cunning Erudition:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling

****Deadly** Toxicology:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Poison die to its maximum value before rolling

**Ritual Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

### The Barrister 

When someone is accused of a crime anywhere in Elara or wishes to sue
another person, she will usually be represented in court by a Barrister.
Barristers have special training in the law and court procedures, and
are skilled at speaking before a magistrate.

Some Barristers work for the Crown and prosecute lawbreakers, while
others can be hired by those with enough money â€“ usually only the rich.
A recent and controversial policy in Gallinea allows for the indigent
poor to be represented by public defenders, paid for by the Crown.

**Suggested Classes:** Chaplain, Constable, Courtier, Envoy, Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Family, Justice, Loyalty, Pride

#### Barrister Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Culture (Etiquette +1, Scholarship +1), Interaction
(Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Observation (Deduce +1), Streetwise (Banter
+1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Artisan (D8)

**Bonus Gear:** Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier's gloves,
skirt, chopines), 6 law books (Knowledge +1D6, six legal topics)

#### Barrister Maneuvers

**Cunning Erudition:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling

**For The Defense:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll

**Legal Precedents:** When speaking in court, spend 1 Style Point to add
Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll

**Practiced Diplomacy:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Brigand 

While Gallinea and most of the Elaran continent are long-settled, that
doesn't always stop opportunists from engaging in banditry. The typical
Brigand in Gallinea is a peasant or even a minor noble whose fortunes
fell and they resorted to force of arms to make their living.

Not all Brigands are necessarily cruel; there's a long history of folk
heroes who rob from the corrupt rich and distribute their loot among the
poor.

**Suggested Classes:** Chaplain, Dogsbody, Dragoon, Explorer, Fusilier,
Privateer, Provincial, Veteran

**Suggested Passions:** Friends, Justice, Loyalty, Wealth

#### Brigand Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Defense (Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Feint +1),
Military (Aim +1), Nature (Prowl +1), Streetwise (Larceny +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword, Cudgel, Bow

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible

**Social Rank:** Commoner (D0)

**Bonus Gear:** Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), leather
jerkin (Flexible +1D6), hunting bow (Bow +1D6)

#### Brigand Maneuvers

**Cunning Camouflage:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Prowl die to its maximum value before rolling

**Martial Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll

**Natural Cover:** When in an area with vegetation, spend 1 Style Point
to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll

**Precise Bludgeoning:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Cudgel weapon die to its maximum value before rolling

**Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

**Trick Shot:** When using a bow or crossbow, spend 1 Style Point to add
Feint dice to an Aim roll

### The Chaplain 

A Chaplain is a clergy member of an organized religion, usually Asrian.
The duties can vary but many times a Chaplain is found serving among
military members or as a member of the court. Chaplains have minimal
training in combat but are skilled at interacting with people.

Most Chaplains in Gallinea follow the Asrian faith, devoted to the
goddess-empress Eserre. Dodekan priests from Achalia are also found as
Chaplains, although rarely outside of the Achalian Islands. Devraist
priests are known as Speakers, and it's rare to meet a Devraist
Chaplain. Dualitarian Chaplains are sometimes co-classed as Speakers,
however.

**Suggested Classes:** Barrister, Chirurgeon, Courtier, Envoy, Explorer,
Provincial, Veteran, Virtuoso, Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Church, Faith, Justice, Knowledge

#### Chaplain Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Culture (Arts +1, Scholarship +1), Interaction (Inspire
+1, Negotiate +1), Observation (Perceive +1, Intuition +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Cudgel

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Artisan (D8)

**Bonus Gear:** Priest outfit (clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier's
gloves, breeches, pantofles), 3 religious books (Knowledge +1D6,
religious topics), quarterstaff (Cudgel +1D8)

#### Chaplain Maneuvers

**Apologetics:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll

**Books of the Sun:** When dealing with someone of the Asrian faith,
spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to an Inspire roll

****Commanding Presence**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling

****Honed Instincts**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Intuition die to its maximum value before rolling

**Refined Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

### The Charlatan 

Charlatans are swindlers, confidence men, mountebanks, and other
tricksters who rely on their wits to defraud others. Many will hawk
medicinal cure-alls or sell fraudulent nostrums, only to vanish when an
angry crowd returns wanting their money back.

**Suggested Classes:** Alchemist, Dogsbody, Chirurgeon, Mechanician,
Provocateur, Witch

**Suggested Passions:** Artistry, Family, Pride, Wealth

#### Charlatan Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Magicks, Medicine, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate
+1, Deceive +1), Streetwise (Banter +1, Larceny +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Commoner (D0)

**Bonus Gear:** Crafter outfit (artisan's beret, smock, craftsman's
gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6),
wagon, draft horse

#### Charlatan Maneuvers

**Aggressive Mockery:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Banter die to its maximum value before rolling

**Confidence Game:** When engaging in a swindle, spend 1 Style Point to
add Banter dice to a Deceive roll

**Cunning Prevarication:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Deceive die to its maximum value before rolling

**Fast-Talking:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
Style Point to add Banter dice to a Dodge roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Charmweaver 

A Charmweaver is a magickally proficient artisan who weaves charms and
enchantments into fabrics. Most are skilled fashion designers and can
combine their artistic and magickal talents together into impressive
displays.

Charmweaving began in Gallinea and has spread throughout Elara in the
last century, as popular fashions with practical charms became
affordable for many common people.

**Suggested Classes:** Courtier, Dogsbody, Virtuosa, Witch

**Suggested Passions:** Artistry, Family, Pride, Wealth

#### Charmweaver Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Magicks

**Specialties:** Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire
+1, Negotiate +1), Magicks (Weave +1), Observation (Perceive +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Artisan (D8)

**Bonus Gear:** Crafter outfit (artisan's beret, smock, craftsman's
gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), tailoring tools (Weave +1D6), 8
supplies of fabric

#### Charmweaver Maneuvers

**Dress to Impress:** While wearing an outfit you created yourself,
spend 1 Style Point to add Weave dice to a Negotiate roll

****Enhanced** Enchantments:** Spend 2 Style points to set the value of
one Charm die to its maximum value before rolling

**Fashion\! Dodge to the Left:** When unarmed and facing an armed
opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll

****Flamboyant** Couture:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Weave die to its maximum value before rolling

**Mistress of Fashion:** When creating clothing or accoutrements with a
base cost of D6 or higher, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a
Weave roll

**Refined Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

### The Chirurgeon

The science of medicine is the domain of the Chirurgeon, who both treats
diseases and injuries, and performs major surgeries. They are often
called upon to heal battlefield injuries, such as musket wounds or
arrows to the knee.

Chirurgeons often wear black bird-headed Plague Masks when treating
their patients; many of these are charmwoven to improve their surgical
skills. Chirurgeons are not adverse to using magicks when appropriate,
including alchemical remedies.

**Suggested Classes:** Alchemist, Charlatan, Courtier, Mechanician,
Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Artistry, Faith, Pride, Wealth

#### Chirurgeon Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Medicine, Science

**Specialties:** Culture (Scholarship +1), Medicine (Surgery +1, Treat
+1, Poison +1), Observation (Intuition +1, Deduce +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Artisan (d8)

****B**onus **G**ear:** Physician outfit (plague mask, surgeon's gown,
breeches, pantofles), chirurgeon's knives (Knife, Surgery +1D6), 8
supplies of medicine

#### Chirurgeon Maneuvers

**Anatomical Studies:** When working in a well-equipped surgical
theatre, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Surgery roll

**Cunning Erudition:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling

**Epidemiology:** When diagnosing or treating an unknown illness, spend
1 Style Point to add Deduce dice to a Treat roll

****First Aid**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat
die to its maximum value before rolling

**Refined Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll

**Scalpel's Cut:** When using a knife or chirurgeon's knives, spend 1
Style Point to add Surgery dice to a Lunge roll

****Second Opinion**:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll

### The Constable

****In the Gallinean justice system, the Crown is represented by two
separate yet equally important groups:**** the Constabulary, who
investigate crime, and the Crown Barristers who prosecute the offenders.
The Constables â€“ and their counterparts in neighboring countries â€“
enforce the laws and protect the people from wrongdoers as well as
capturing those who commit criminal acts.

Most Constables are employed by the Crown or a local province, while a
few have retired and ply their trade as investigators for private hire.

**Suggested Classes:** Barrister, Dragoon, Duelist, Provincial, Veteran

**Suggested Passions:** Country, Justice, Knowledge, Loyalty

#### Constable Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Dueling, Culture, Military, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Culture (Etiquette +1), Dueling (Riposte +1), Defense
(Parry +1), Military (Brawl +1, Aim +1), Observation (Deduce +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword, Cudgel, Musket

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible, Rigid

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Guard uniform (capotain, soldier's gloves, breeches,
boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D6), flintlock musket
(Musket +1D10)

#### Constable Maneuvers

**Criminology:** When investigating a crime scene, spend 1 Style Point
to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll

**Brilliant Analysis:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling

**Down-n-Dirty Fighting:** When making a riposte while you have one hand
free, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a Riposte roll

**Practiced Sharpshooting:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling

**Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Courtier

Members of the Gallinean royal court, and other noble courts, are
Courtiers. They are well-educated, trained in etiquette and social
graces, and have preternatural skill for plotting and intrigue.

Courtiers revel in their lives of luxury, but all know that they only
continue to have such glamorous lives at the forbearance of their
matrons and patrons. A Courtier who is outcast from polite society may
return to take revenge upon a noblewoman or nobleman.

Magicks and the sciences are a draw to the Courier, as well as some
martial pursuits; nobles often have time to develop such skills at their
leisure. 

**Suggested Classes:** Alchemist, Barrister, Chaplain, Charmweaver,
Chirurgeon, Duelist, Envoy, Provocateur, Veteran, Virtuosa, Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Country, Friends, Lust, Pride

#### Courtier Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Dueling, Military

**Specialties:** Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Defense (Parry +1),
Interaction (Negotiate +1, Deceive +1), Observation (Intuition +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword, Pistol

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Noble (D10)

**Bonus Gear:** Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier's gloves,
skirt, chopines), riding horse

#### Courtier Maneuvers

**Don't You Know Who I Am?:** When speaking with someone of Artisan
social rank or lower, spend 1 Style Point to add Social Rank dice to a
Negotiate roll

**Polite Fictions:** When speaking with someone of at least Noble social
rank, spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to a Deceive roll

**Practiced Manners:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling

**Aristocra**tic Bearing\`**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Social Rank die to its maximum value before rolling

**Reliable Senses:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

**There's No Need for Violence:** When unarmed and facing an armed
opponent, spend 1 Style Point to add Inspire dice to a Dodge roll

### The Dogsbody

A Dogsbody is a common manservant or henchperson, one who assists
another in their escapades and only rarely comes up with a cunning plan.
A Dogsbody is often overlooked by those of higher social rank, and other
servants and lower-class commoners are more likely to talk to a Dogsbody
openly than to the manservant's master.

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Chaplain, Charlatan, Courtier, Dragoon,
Privateer, Provincial, Veteran

**Suggested Passions:** Family, Friends, Loyalty, Wealth

#### Dogsbody Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Nature, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1),
Observation (Perceive +1), Nature (Husbandry +1), Streetwise (Carouse
+1, Larceny +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Cudgel

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible

**Social Rank:** Commoner (D0)

**Bonus Gear:** Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes)

#### Dogsbody Maneuvers

****Comfortable** Debauchery:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Carouse die to its maximum value before rolling

****Focused** Attention:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling

**Lost in the Crowd:** When in an area with more than 3 other people,
spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl dice to a Dodge roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

**The Underground Economy:** When buying or selling on the black market,
spend 1 Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Larceny roll

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Dragoon 

A Dragoon is a professional soldier, usually a member of the cavalry.
Dragoons are found throughout Elara and beyond; they are usually more
serious and less flashy than the swashbuckling Cavaliers. Dragoons
usually wear heavier armor in the field.

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Duelist, Dogsbody,
Provincial, Veteran.

**Suggested Passions:** Country, Justice, Loyalty, Pride

#### Dragoon Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Defense (Block +1, Parry +1), Military (Brawl +1),
Dueling (Lunge +1, Riposte +1), Nature (Husbandry +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword, Polearm, Pistol

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible, Rigid

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Guard uniform (capotain, soldier's gloves, breeches,
boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D10), lance (Polearm
+1D10)

#### Dragoon Maneuvers

**Aggressive Assault:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Lunge die to its maximum value before rolling

**Deflecting Shield:** When using a Shield to parry, spend 1 Style Point
to add Block dice to a Parry roll

**Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

**Mounted Combatant:** When using a weapon with the Mounted quality
while mounted, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll

****Ubiquitous Shield**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Rigid Armor or Shield item die to its maximum value before rolling

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Envoy

An Envoy is a diplomatic representative, usually of a country, province,
or other political group, although some represent religious groups or
trade unions. An Envoy character should identify who she works for at
the start of the game (although her allegiance may change during play).

Envoys are usually well-traveled and skilled at reading people and
reaching compromises.

**Suggested Classes:** Barrister, Chaplain, Courtier, Provocateur,
Speaker

**Suggested Passions:** Church, Country, Knowledge, Loyalty

#### Envoy Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Nature

**Specialties:** Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire +1,
Negotiate +1), Nature (Explore +1), Observation (Perceive +1, Intuition
+1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Noble (D10)

**Bonus Gear:** Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier's gloves,
skirt, chopines)

#### Envoy Maneuvers

**Diplomatic Immunity:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent,
spend 1 Style Point to add Negotiate dice to a Dodge roll

**Practiced Diplomacy:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling

**Practiced Manners:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling

**Reliable Senses:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

**Well-Traveled:** When dealing with someone from a foreign culture,
spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to an Etiquette roll

### The Explorer

The current century is an age of exploration, and the Explorer is one
who is caught up in that zeitgeist, pushing back the frontiers on the
known world. Explorers are alternately courageous or foolhardy depending
on who you talk to, ready to leave their lives behind and seek out the
unknown.

Many explorers are Privateers, although some who move to colonize exotic
lands such as Elissia can be Provincials.

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Chaplain, Privateer, Provincial,
Speaker, Veteran, Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Country, Knowledge, Loyalty, Wealth

#### Explorer Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Military, Nature, Science

**Specialties:** Culture (Etiquette +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature
(Explore +1, Prowl +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Science (Calculus +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Bow, Musket, Whip

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman's gloves,
breeches, boots), flintlock musket (Musket +1D10), bullwhip (Whip +1D6)

#### Explorer Maneuvers

****Relentless** Pathfinding:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Explore die to its maximum value before rolling

**Camouflage Mastery:** When moving though the wilderness, spend 1 Style
Point to add Explore dice to a Prowl roll

**Cartography:** When navigating using a map, spend 1 Style Point to add
Calculus dice to an Explore roll

****Focused** Attention:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling

**Martial Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll

**Rural Reliabi**l**ity:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll

### The Fusilier

The Fusilier is a soldier specializing in the use of the flintlock
musket and other ranged firearms, including clockwork muskets and
pistols. A Fusilier can usually load, disassemble, and reassemble her
weapon while blindfolded.

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Duelist, Mechanician, Provincial,
Privateer, Veteran

**Suggested Passions:** Artistry, Country, Loyalty, Pride

#### Fusilier Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Dueling, Military, Nature, Science, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Defense (Dodge +1), Military (Aim +1), Nature (Prowl
+1), Observation (Perceive +1), Science (Blackpowder +1, Calculus +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Pistol, Musket, Grenade, Cannon

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Guard uniform (capotain, soldier's gloves, breeches,
boots, tabard), leather jerkin (Flexible Armor +1D6), flintlock musket
(Musket +1D10)

#### Fusilier Maneuvers

**Ballistics:** When firing a cannon, spend 1 Style Point to add
Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll

****Focused** Attention:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Perceive die to its maximum value before rolling

**Incoming Fire:** When avoiding a ranged attack, spend 1 Style Point to
add Aim dice to a Dodge roll

**Martial Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll

**Practiced Sharpshooting:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling

**Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

**Sniper:** When attacking from at least 3 areas away, spend 1 Style
Point to add Prowl dice to an Aim roll

### The Mechanician 

Fantastic clockwork devices are fashioned by Mechanicians, well-trained
artisans who can engineer complex machinery to accomplish repetitive
tasks. Their gadgets are in great demand throughout society, although
usually only the wealthy can afford the most advanced items.

**Suggested Classes:** Alchemist, Charlatan, Fusilier, Privateer,
Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth

(subsection) Mechanican Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Science

**Specialties:** Culture (Scholarship +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1),
Observation (Deduce +1), Science (Blackpowder +1, Clockworks +1,
Calculus +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Pistol, Musket, Bow

**Armor Prowess:** Flexible

**Social Rank:** Artisan (D8)

**Bonus Gear:** Clockworker outfit (gearspring goggles (Perceive +1D6),
smock, craftsman's gloves, breeches, pantofles), leather jerkin
(Flexible Armor +1D6), repair tools (Clockworks +1D6), 8 supplies of
clockwork gears

#### Mechanician Maneuvers

**Automatic Fire:** When using a clockwork weapon, spend 1 Style Point
to add Clockworks dice to an Aim roll

**Verifiable Hypothesis:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll

**Practiced Crafting:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling

**Precis**ion** Mechanics:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Clockwork weapon die to its maximum value before rolling

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

**Standing on the Shoulders of Giants:** When inventing a device in a
well-equipped workshop, spend 1 Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a
Clockworks roll

### The Privateer 

Not all Privateers are pirates; most these days are licensed by one of
the national governments or may in fact be part of a Royal Navy.
Privateers are skilled at sailing both sea-ships and air-ships, although
the latter are still quite rare.

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Chirurgeon, Dogsbody, Duelist, Explorer,
Fusilier, Mechanician, Provincial, Veteran, Virtuosa

**Suggested Passions:** Country, Loyalty, Lust, Wealth

#### Privateer Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Dueling, Military, Nature, Science, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Defense (Dodge +1), Dueling (Lunge +1, Feint +1),
Military (Aim +1), Nature (Explore +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword, Pistol, Cannon

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Corsair outfit (tricorne, doublet, craftman's gloves,
breeches, boots), cutlass (Sword +1D6)

#### Privateer Maneuvers

**Broadsides:** When firing a ship-mounted cannon, spend 1 Style Point
to add Explore dice to a Blackpowder roll

**Cunning Evasion:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Dodge
die to its maximum value before rolling

**Cunning Misdirection:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Feint die to its maximum value before rolling

**Into the Rigging:** When on a ship or a boat, spend 1 Style Point to
add Explore dice to a Dodge roll

****Practiced Fencing**:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Dueling roll

**Naval Hilt:** When using a cutlass, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore
dice to a Parry roll

**Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

### The Provincial 

Outside of the cosmopolitan sprawl of Lutetia are the provinces of
Gallinea â€“ home to commoners and petty noblefolk, many of whom lack
education and refinement. These Provincials â€“ and the Provincials of
other nations â€“ are looked down on by the city folk.

Provincials who come to Lutetia often feel they have something to prove
when dealing with residents of the capital city; it's not uncommon for
brawls to break out in bars because someone's clothes or horse was
insulted.

A few Provincials are minor nobles and choose the Courtier co-class,
although they rarely are afforded the respect given to their urban
cousins.

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Dogsbody, Dragoon,
Duelist, Explorer, Fusilier, Privateer, Veteran, Witch

**Suggested Passions:** Country, Family, Love, Pride

#### Provincial Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Military, Nature, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Military (Brawl +1, Aim +1), Nature (Husbandry +1,
Prowl +1), Observation (Perceive +1), Streetwise ( +1Carouse)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Cudgel, Bow

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Commoner (D0)

**Bonus Gear:** Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), draft
horse

#### Provincial Maneuvers

**Aggressive Fisticuffs:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Brawl die to its maximum value before rolling

**Equestrienne:** When mounted on a horse you care for yourself, spend 1
Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Lunge roll

**Martial Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll

**Practiced Cultivation:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Husbandry die to its maximum value before rolling

**Street Fighting:** When using a knife or a cudgel, spend 1 Style Point
to add Brawl dice to a Lunge roll

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Provocateur 

A revolutionary, a spy, an assassin, a traitor, a conspirator â€“ these
are terms used to speak of the Provocateur, a shadowy figure enmeshed in
plots within plots. Provocateurs are used by all nations of Elara,
although they are rarely trusted even among those who employ them.

A typical Provocateur does not advertise her profession, so she will
usually rely on her co-class for her public persona. 

**Suggested Classes:** Charlatan, Courtier, Duelist, Envoy, Speaker,
Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Church, Country, Love, Wealth

#### Provocateur Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Medicine, Military, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Culture (Etiquette +1), Interaction (Negotiate +1,
Deceive +1), Medicine (Poison +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1, Larceny +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Pistol

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Any one outfit, dagger (Knife +1D6), 6 doses of poison

#### Provocateur Maneuvers

**Cunning Thievery:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Larceny die to its maximum value before rolling

****Deadly** Toxicology:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Poison die to its maximum value before rolling

**Envenomed Blade:** When using a poisoned knife, spend 1 Style Point to
add Poison dice to a Lunge roll

**Mostly Harmless:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
Style Point to add Deceive dice to a Dodge roll

**Shady Negotiations:** When dealing with criminals or conspirators,
spend 1 Style Point to add Larceny dice to a Negotiate roll

**Social Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction
roll

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Speaker

A Speaker is an adherent of the Desert Mother, Devra, whose purpose in
Gallinea is to convert the masses. Devraism is legal within Gallinea but
is in conflict with the majority Asrian religion. For this reason,
Speakers usually keep a low profile while spreading their messages of
stoic living and opposition to secular authorities.

Few, if any, Speakers are loyal to the Gallinean crown; Speakers are
usually opponents for the Queen's Cavaliers rather than allies. 

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Chirurgeon, Envoy, Explorer, Privateer,
Provocateur, Virtuosa, Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Faith, Family, Justice, Loyalty

#### Speaker Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Magicks, Nature

**Specialties:** Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire
+1), Magicks (Portents +1), Nature (Explore +1), Observation (Intuition
+1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Cudgel, Bow

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Commoner (D0)

**Bonus Gear:** Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), hunting
bow (Bow +1D6), *Songs of the Desert Mother* (Knowledge +1D6, Devran
religion)

#### Speaker Maneuvers

****Commanding Presence**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling

**Practiced Manners:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Etiquette die to its maximum value before rolling

**Refined Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll

**Reliable Senses:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll

**Rites of the Moon:** When dealing with someone of the Devran faith,
spend 1 Style Point to add Etiquette dice to an Inspire roll

### The Veteran 

Gallinea and its neighbors maintain standing armies, composed of
professional soldiers who fight in their wars at home and abroad. The
most recent war between Gallinea and Albia lasted for a total of 20
years, ending 6 years ago with the marriage of then-princess Mariana
(now Queen Mariana) to prince Carolus of Albia.

Veterans of that and other wars are well-trained in the art of battle,
and if not currently part of a military unit, often join mercenary
companies or guard regiments rather than settle down into a civilian
lifestyle.

**Suggested Classes:** Brigand, Chaplain, Constable, Dogsbody, Dragoon,
Duelist, Explorer, Fusilier, Privateer, Provincial

**Suggested Passions:** Country, Family, Friends, Loyalty

#### Veteran Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Dueling, Military, Nature, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Defense (Block +1), Dueling (Lunge +1), Military (Aim
+1, Strategy +1), Nature (Explore +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword, Polearm, Pistol, Musket

**Armor Prowess:** Rigid, Shield

**Social Rank:** Soldier (D6)

**Bonus Gear:** Guard uniform (capotain, soldier's gloves, breeches,
boots, tabard), steel breastplate (Rigid Armor +1D10), flintlock musket
(Musket +1D10)

#### Veteran Maneuvers

**Last Resort:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Defense roll

**Martial Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll

**Practiced Sharpshooting:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Aim die to its maximum value before rolling

**Reconnaissance:** When trying to spot other people, spend 1 Style
Point to add Explore dice to a Perceive roll

**(subsection) Strategic Maneuvers:** When commanding at least 3 troops,
spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a Strategy roll

****Trained Endurance**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Block die to its maximum value before rolling

### The Virtuosa

A Virtuosa is a master performer or artist, creating beautiful works of
art, music, or drama. Virtuosas can be singers, actors, painters,
playwrights, sculptors, musicians, composers, poets, and other artists.

Being an effective Virtuosa requires training in the arts and history,
plus a great degree of innate talent. Virtuosas are well-respected
throughout society, especially among the upper classes.

**Suggested Classes:** Chaplain, Charmweaver, Courtier, Envoy,
Privateer, Visionary

**Suggested Passions:** Artistry, Friends, Pride, Wealth

#### Virtuosa Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Culture (Arts +1, Etiquette +1), Interaction (Inspire
+1, Negotiate +1), Streetwise (Banter +1, Carouse +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife, Sword

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Artisan (D8)

**Bonus Gear:** Courtly outfit (hair ribbons, bodice, courtier's gloves,
skirt, chopines), musical instrument (Arts +1D6)

#### Virtuosa Maneuvers

**Boundless Creativity:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Arts die to its maximum value before rolling

****Commanding Presence**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Inspire die to its maximum value before rolling

**From the Heart:** When performing or displaying a work of art, spend 1
Style Point to add Arts dice to an Inspire roll

**I'm Too Pretty to Die\!:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent,
spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Dodge roll

**In Costume:** When wearing a disguise or costume, spend 1 Style Point
to add Arts dice to a Deceive roll

**Refined Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll

****Urban** Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise
roll

### The Visionary

A Visionary is someone whose genius far exceeds that of the average
person. True Renaissance women and men, they are able to apply logic and
science ways that seem almost supernatural to many.

A Visionary may be a leader, or she may be a quiet follower who only
seeks to pursue her life's work. Visionaries are usually well-educated
and can speak confidently on a variety of topics.

**Suggested Classes:** Barrister, Chaplain, Courtier, Explorer,
Mechanician, Virtuosa

**Suggested Passions:** Artistry, Knowledge, Pride, Wealth

#### Visionary Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Culture, Medicine, Military, Nature, Science

**Specialties:** Culture (Scholarship +1), Military (Strategy +1),
Nature (Explore +1), Observation (Deduce +1), Science (Clockworks +1,
Calculus +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Artisan (D8)

**Bonus Gear:** Crafter outfit (artisan's beret, smock, craftsman's
gloves, breeches, buckled shoes), 6 books (Knowledge +1D6, one subject
each), repair tools (Clockworks +1D6)

#### Visionary Maneuvers

****Brilliant** Analysis:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Deduce die to its maximum value before rolling

**Forensic Analysis:** When using a well-equipped laboratory, spend 1
Style Point to add Scholarship dice to a Deduce roll

****Inventive Mathematics**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of
one Calculus die to its maximum value before rolling

**Refined Reliability:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll

**Tactical Retreat:** When unarmed and facing an armed opponent, spend 1
Style Point to add Strategy dice to a Dodge roll

****Verifiable Hypothesis**:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science
roll

### The Witch

An ancient tradition that predates the Qartan Empire, the Witches of
Gallinea are experts at folk remedies, herbal lore, midwifery, and
reading omens. Witchcraft is officially tolerated in Gallinea, although
most devoutly religious people eschew contact with Witches unless
absolutely necessary.

Some Witches are publicly known as such, but most keep their rituals
secret from the authorities, remembering past periods of persecution.

**Suggested Classes:** Alchemist, Charlatan, Charmweaver, Provincial,
Virtuosa

**Suggested Passions:** Faith, Family, Friends, Love

#### Witch Qualities

**Skill Competency:** Magicks, Medicine, Nature, Streetwise

**Specialties:** Magicks (Brew +1, Portents +1), Medicine (Treat +1,
Poison +1), Nature (Husbandry +1), Streetwise (Carouse +1)

**Weapon Prowess:** Knife

**Armor Prowess:** None

**Social Rank:** Commoner (D0)

**Bonus Gear:** Peasant outfit (shift, breeches, buckled shoes), 4
supplies of alchemical ingredients, alchemy tools (Brew, Poison +1D6),
divination tools (Portents +1D6)

#### Witch Maneuvers

**Anti-Toxins:** When creating an antidote or countering a poison, spend
1 Style Point to add Brew dice to a Poison roll

****First Aid**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat
die to its maximum value before rolling

**Folk Remedies:** When you have access to a garden, forest, or herb
collection, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice to a Treat roll

**Ritua**l Reliability**:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll

****Second Opinion**:** Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll

****Uncanny Prediction**:** Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Portents die to its maximum value before rolling

