# Skills and Specialties

There are 12 skills, ranging from Culture to
Streetwise. Each of these skills has three specialties, corresponding to
the three Attributes of Verve, Affinity, and Guile.

### Using Skills

To use a skill, first you determine under which specialty the task you
want to perform falls. Your dice pool starts with one die of that
specialty's corresponding attribute; this is your Attribute Die.

If you have competency in that skill, you can add your Competency Die to
the dice pool. There are four skills that all player characters are
competent at using: Defense, Initiative, Interaction, and Observation.

You can have +0, +1, +2, +3, +4, or +5 ranks in each specialty, although
a starting character is initially limited to only +2 ranks. Each rank
adds an additional die of the same size as your Attribute Die to the
dice pool; these are your Specialty Dice.

Many specialties allow you to add an Item Die from a tool or item to the
dice pool as well, as described under the separate listings for each
specialty. Weapon Dice and Armor Dice are subcategories of Item Dice;
you can only add a Weapon or Armor die if you have prowess with that
weapon or armor. You can have only one Item Die in any given dice pool.

You might have a Bonus Die that you can include in your dice pool under
certain circumstances. Tag Dice and Advantage Dice are subcategories of
Bonus Dice. A Tag Die is temporary and is based on a word, a phrase, a
person, a place, a thing, or a concept. Your Advantage Die is used in
combat, and can progress from +1D6 up to +1D12. You can only have one
Bonus Die in a dice pool.

Factors that make your skills harder to use assign a Drop Penalty to
your dice pool. Such factors range from Wounds to language barriers.
Each Drop Penalty specifies a number of dice that are dropped -- meaning
removed -- from your dice pool before you roll. A Drop 2 penalty means
you remove 2 dice. You can choose which dice to drop, and so you're
going to want to drop the smallest size dice.

Once you've finished constructing your dice pool, you roll all the dice
at once. You select the dice that resulted in the highest two numbers,
and you discard the results of the other dice. Then you see what the Gamemaster 
rolls on the opposition dice.

There are two types of opposition dice. Some are rolls of your
opponent's corresponding specialty, such as her Defense (Parry) roll
against your Dueling (Lunge) roll. In other situations you might be
rolling against standard opposition, rolled by the Gamemaster. Standard
opposition pools consist of three dice of the same size, from Easy (3D6)
to Very Difficult (3D12).

###### Standard Opposition

| Difficulty | Opposing Dice Pool |
| ---------- | ------------------ |
| Very Easy  | Automatic success  |
| Easy       | 3D6                |
| Moderate   | 3D8                |
| Hard       | 3D10               |
| Very Hard  | 3D12               |

The total of your roll is the sum of the two dice you kept after
rolling. The success points generated by your roll equal the lower of
the two dice. If you beat the total of the opposition dice, then you can
spend those success points on the success table for that specialty.
Otherwise, your opponent can spend her success points.

You can usually buy a result from a success table multiple times, unless
it says otherwise in the description of the specialty. Success points
you don't use are simply discarded when you finish buying the results
you want.

One of the most common ways to spend success points is to buy a style
point for 3 success points. You use style points to power your style
maneuvers, which let you combine together the Specialty Dice of two
different specialties, set one die in a pool to its maximum value before
you roll, or reroll a result that you don't like. You can only have 3
style points at a time, so if you already have 3, you can't buy any
more.

The skills, specialties, and their corresponding attributes are shown in the following table:

###### Skills and Specialties

| Skill       | Verve Specialty | Affinity Specialty | Guile Specialty |
| ----------- | --------------- | ------------------ | --------------- |
| Culture     | Arts            | Etiquette          | Scholarship     |
| Defense     | Parry           | Block              | Dodge           |
| Dueling     | Lunge           | Riposte            | Feint           |
| Initiative  | Impulse         | Vigilance          | Timing          |
| Interaction | Inspire         | Negotiate          | Deceive         |
| Magicks     | Weave           | Brew               | Portents        |
| Medicine    | Surgery         | Treat              | Poison          |
| Military    | Brawl           | Aim                | Strategy        |
| Nature      | Explore         | Husbandry          | Prowl           |
| Observation | Perceive        | Intuition          | Deduce          |
| Science     | Blackpowder     | Clockworks         | Calculus        |
| Streetwise  | Banter          | Carouse            | Larceny         |

Skills and Specialties are described below, with a Success Table for
each Specialty. You gain a set of skills and specialties from each of
your classes (or backstory), and additional skills and specialty ranks
from customizing your character. As you gain experience points, you can
spend XP to increase your ranks in your specialties, or add new skills.

The Success Tables that follow are meant to be a guideline for you and
the Gamemaster to determine what happens based on any given roll. They are not
meant to override the fictional narrative; a result can only happen if
it makes sense in the context of the story.

At the Gamemaster's discretion, a different table can be used for any Specialty
– or a result from any Success Table – for the price of one additional
Success Point. This allows for flexibility in player actions by
comparing against similar tasks, and using those results.

