# (chapter) Chapter 11: Atlas of Gallinea

Setting

Version 0.10.01, 7 May 2016

Nations of Elara and Ifran

The two continents of Elara and Ifran are separated by the placid Middle
Sea, and bounded on both sides by the great world-sea Oceanus. The
Qartan Empire once ruled both continents, but Qarta is now in ruins.

National Styles

Optional Rule: You can choose Style Maneuvers based on your Nationality
instead of your classes. A starting character can take only one
Nationality-based Style Maneuver.

The third Style Maneuver for each Nationality describes the region's
fencing or combat style.

Gallinea

Government: Matrilineal Monarchy

Ruler: Queen Mariana II

Capital: Lutetia

Language: Gallinean

Major Religion: Asrian

Located in the middle of western Elara, Gallinea considers itself the
heart of the world. With fertile farmlands throughout the Gallinean
valley and abundant natural resources, the queendom of Gallinea has
become a major power in recent centuries. Gallinea, like most of the
continent of Elara, was once part of the ancient Qartan Empire.

Gallinea has a long history as a matriarchy, and in recent centuries has
become known for its very egalitarian and inclusive views – a philosophy
which has been tested since the former monarch, Queen Elisse, was
assassinated. Her youngest daughter, now Queen Mariana, has tried to
maintain her mother's policy of tolerance in the face of increasing
clamor for a less open society.

Gender equality is usually a given in Gallinea, and freedom of religion
is enforced by law – although only Asrianism is broadly accepted.
Heterosexuality is the norm, but pansexuality, bisexuality, and
homosexuality are all embraced and supported by society. Gallinean
inheritance passes along a matrilineal path, so most heads of noble
families are female. The symbol of Gallinea is the pegasus.

Names (Traditionally Female): Adain, Adeline, Allis, Ameline,Angelique,
Aubree, Avisse, Biciere, Bietrix, Cezille, Clementia, Collaye, Cornille,
Denyse, Emmeline, Emone, Erme, Esdeline, Estevene, Flourie, Genevieve,
Gervaise, Gilette, Havis, Helene, Helicent, Hersent, Jacqueline,
Jehanne, Jossete, Justine, Lore, Mahelot, Marcile, Marguine, Masselia,
Nicolette, Odeline, Peronne, Plourette, Poncelette, Renee, Rose, Royne,
Sebille, Simonne, Sylvie, Thieffaine, Tiessa, Vandalene, Weceline, Ydee,
Yzabeau

Names (Traditionally Male): Alain, Allard, Ancel, Andrieu, Antoine,
Arnault, Aubert, Bastien, Berard, Bettremeiux, Biciere, Buesart,
Clarembaut, Colart, Crespin, Denis, Eliot, Estiene, Felix, Fermin,
Ferry, Foubert, Galleran, Garrin, Gilles, Guerin, Hemet, Hevelin,
Honorre, Hue, Isembart, Jaspart, Joffroy, Jorram, Jossequin, Lambert,
Lorens, Margain, Nevelet, Odyon, Oudart, Percevale, Philippe, Quentin,
Regnault, Remi, Rolland, Savain, Surien, Tassart, Thierry, Valentin,
Vinchant, Wautier, Yves

Lutetian Style Maneuvers

Maximize Arts: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one Arts die to
its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Education: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Education roll.

Add Arts to Parry: When fighting with a rapier in one hand and the other
hand empty, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Parry roll.

Lutetia

Government: Appointed Mayorship

Ruler: Lady-Mayor Lusienne Castenia

Language: Gallinean

Major Religion: Asrian

The capital of Gallinea, Lutetia is built upon a lake island and
surrounded by 16 huge bridges that reach out to the farmlands and
estates that circle the city.

Lutetia is known for its majestic architecture as well as its green
parks. Landmarks include the Royal Palace, the Universities of Lutetia,
the Grand Cathedral, and the Gallinean Library.

Members of the Lutetian court include:

Queen Mariana: A mere 23 years old, Mariana was never intended to be
Queen; that was meant for her older sister, Crown Princess Jehanne. The
tragic assassination of her mother, Queen Elisse, and Princess Jehanne
catapulted her to the throne unexpectedly. The Queen's champions are
traditionally known as the Queen's Cavaliers.

Prince-Consort Carolus: A princeling from Albia, Carolus was wed to
Princess Mariana at a young age to cement the Treaty of Scanbreille. Now
the consort to the Queen of Gallinea, he often finds himself at odds
with the matriarchal, progressive views of his bride. By tradition, the
Prince-Consort is the honorary head of the Cavaliers.

Guardian Farrazin: The head Chaplain of Lutetia, Guardian of the Faith
Farrazin is an ambitious and cunning man. The Corderan-educated cleric
seeks to expand the power of Gallinea throughout the world, and increase
his own personal authority as well. His own Holy Guardsmen are in an
ongoing rivalry with the Queen's Cavaliers.

Prince-Father Michel Aubene: Younger brother of the Duchess of
Valerienne, Michel was the husband and consort of Queen until her
untimely death. He served for a year as prince-regent before Queen
Mariana ascended the throne on her 18th birthday, and he often finds
himself disagreeing with Prince-Consort Carolus, his Albian son-in-law.

Lord-Ambassador Bedyngford: The Duke of Bedyngford is the current
ambassador to Gallinea from Albia. He delights in the fashions and
pageantry of the Lutetian court, and is a frequent drinking partner of
his younger countryman, Prince Carolus.

Lady-Mayor Lusienne Castenia: The countess of Castenia is the current
lady-mayor of Lutetia, and is renowned as much for her lavish formal
parties as her political scheming. 

Lutetian Style Maneuvers

Maximize Arts: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one Arts die to
its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Culture: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Culture roll.

Add Arts to Parry: When fighting with a rapier in one hand and the other
hand empty, spend 1 Style Point to add Arts dice to a Parry roll.

The Jeweled Coast

Governments: Matrilinear Nobility

Language: Gallinean, some Ekalian

Major Religion: Asrian

The seaports along the southern coast of Gallinea are known as the
Jeweled Cities. The largest of these is Valerienne; others include
Berylle and Rhodope. Arynne Aubene, the Duchess of Valerienne, is the
sister of Prince-Father Michel.

The cities of the Jeweled Coast are known for their talents with
clockworks and other forms of technology and scientific artifice.

Jeweled Coast Style Maneuvers

Maximize Clockworks: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one
Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Observation: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll.

Add Feint to Aim: When fighting with a smallsword, cutlass, or rapier in
one hand and a pistol in the other hand, spend 1 Style Point to add
Feint dice to an Aim roll.

Scanbria

Government: Matrilinear Nobility

Ruler: Duchess Jennevive d'Angelet

Capital: Scanbreille

Language: Gallinean, some Varendish

Major Religion: Asrian

Many Scanbrians are of Varendish ancestry, and the lands of Scanbria
were once a separate nation. After several wars with both Varendia and
Albia, Scanbria was incorporated into Gallinea and has been loyal to the
throne for several centuries.

The main city in Scanbria is Scanbreille, ruled by Jennevive d'Angelet,
the Duchess of Scanbria, and her husband Lord Gerhardt from Varendia.
The peace of the last few years has led to an increase in wealth for the
Scanbrians, situated along trade routes between Gallinea, Albia, and
Varendia. Scanbria is also known for its textile industries.

Scanbrian Style Maneuvers

Maximize Negotiate: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one
Negotiate die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Observation: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll.

Add Deceive to Parry: When fighting with a rapier or longsword in one
hand and a buckler in the other hand, spend 1 Style Point to add Deceive
dice to a Parry roll.

The Provinces

Governments: Matrilinear Nobility

Language: Gallinean

Major Religion: Asrian

All told, there are 46 different provinces in Gallinea, including
Lutetia, Valerienne, Berylle, Rhodope, and Scanbria. Each is controlled
by a countess, baroness, or duchess (or, rarely, a count, baron, or
duke) and all pledge loyalty to the Queen.

Apart from the major cities, the rest of the provinces are rural farming
fiefdoms, and many from Lutetia tend to look down upon their less
sophisticated, less cosmopolitan countrymen.

Gallinean Provincial Style Maneuvers

Maximize Husbandry: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one
Husbandry die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Magicks: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Magicks roll.

Add Brawl to Dodge: When fighting with a rapier or longsword in one hand
and the other hand empty, spend 1 Style Point to add Brawl dice to a
Dodge roll.

Albia

Government: Patrilinear Monarchy

Ruler: King Edgar II

Capital: Dunon

Language: Albian

Official Religion: Dualitarian

Albia, Gallinea's neighbor to the north, has had various episodes of
expansionism that has brought it to war with Gallinea on multiple
occasions. The most recent war ended eight years ago after 20 years of
conflict, and the peace treaty was cemented by the marriage of Princess
Mariana to one of the Albian princes.

Albia is a patriarchal monarchy; the current ruler is King Edgar II,
father of Crown Prince Edmund and Prince-Consort Carolus of Gallinea.
Dualitarianism is the state religion of Albia.

Colonies of Albia have been settled on the Storm Islands of the Great
Sea, as well as New Dunon in West Ifran.

Names (Traditionally Female): Adinell, Achelyna, Aelina, Alyson,
Angharad, Audrey, Bryget, Elspeth, Gelyan, Grisel, Gylda, Gwallaten,
Hawyse, Jain, Jennet, Jonet, Kemma, Kirchine, Kynborow, Lleiki, Leueua,
Livid, Maisenta, Meriall, Merwenna, Maud, Osanna, Quenilda, Rosamund,
Sely, Sibilla, Swanekilda, Swethyna, Violet, Wimar, Winifred

Names (Traditionally Male): Atto, Bartram, Beorn, Burgstan, Cuthbert,
Dackin, Dawy, Dunstane, Elfric, Guy, Herry, Hew, Hopkin, Jenkin, Jollyn,
Kenelm, Kinvrig, Leyson, Lulling, Morgan, Ordric, Oswald, Quinton, Rafe,
Sewel, Tulk, Tunstall, Wulfryd, Wyllin

Albian Style Maneuvers

Maximize Strategy: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one Strategy
die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Medicine: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Medicine roll.

Add Husbandry to Lunge: When fighting with a saber or longsword in one
hand and the other hand empty, spend 1 Style Point to add Husbandry dice
to a Lunge roll.

Dragosa

Government: Hereditary Principality

Ruler: Prince Aron Dragosa

Capital: Volstok

Languages: Ekalian, Talanian, Varendish

Official Religion: Asrian

The strong influence of Dragosa's neighbors -- Ekalia to the west,
Varendia to the northwest, and Talania to the northeast -- has led some
to claim that the country possesses no distinct national identity of its
own. Dragosans vehemently disagree, pointing to their culture as
combining together the best aspects of all of Elara into a pluralistic,
multicultural whole.

Dragosa has three official languages -- Ekalian, Talanian, Varendish.
Dragosans generally speak at least two of these languages and usually
all three; there is no particular ethnic or ancestral attachment to
anyone particular language; it's common to find Dragosans of Ekalian
descent perfectly fluent in Varendish and Talanian, for example. Many
conversations are held in a mix of all three languages, blending
together terminology from different sources into a uniquely Dragosan
argot.

Former inhabitants of Talania, fleeing from the encroachment of the
Shattering Frost, have flooded the northern and central parts of
Dragosa. These immigrants are seen to threaten the multicultural nature
of Dragosa by lack of fluency in Ekalian and Varendish, and as such are
limited in what roles they can play in Dragosan society. With the
inability to return to their ancestral homelands, the Talanian refugees
are at risk of becoming a permanent lower class within Dragosa.

Residents of Dragosa frequently use Ekalian, Talanian, and Varendish
names.

Names (Traditionally Female): Adalina, Alamanna, Alessandra, Alzeiza,
Andreola, Aulina, Baldanca, Bettina, Cara, Cecilia, Certa, Collela,
Corsa, Dierna, Ducle, Flordiana, Galiana, Gherarda, Imeldina, Jema,
Leni, Lise, Manetta, Mirabillis, Nencia, Oliva, Orsina, Pellegrina,
Perretta, Sassa, Sena, Taddea, Verdiana, Ventura, Vinca, Ymeldina,
Zanobia; Anka, Arina, Doina, Krina, Lenuta, Musatei, Raluka, Smaranda,
Viorika; Abeleken, Aenlin, Affra, Alheyden, Beken, Bridlin, Carstine,
Claur, Ells, Engel, Ewa, Fronica, Gersche, Greth, Hille, Ilsebeen,
Irmla, Keterlin, Kunlen, Metke, Othilia, Ottilig, Pel, Prista, Reynse,
Susann, Thorlein, Ursula, Walpurg

Names (Traditionally Male): Allessandro, Agostino, Averardo, Baldassare,
Barixono, Cadere, Carlo, Cassano, Cosimo, Dagnano, Fanucio, Florino,
Gherardo, Giovanni, Justasada, Lazzaro, Marino, Onesto, Orazio,
Pantaleo, Pagolo, Piero, Rudi, Sandro, Strozza, Tozzo, Umberto, Viatti,
Zanobi; Aron, Basarab, Ciubar, Dragos, Ilias, Ioan, Iuga, Mircea, Pirvu,
Radu, Seneslav, Tihomir, Vintila, Vladislav; Albrecht, Arndt, Augsten,
Bastian, Curt, Detleff, Dirck, Gangloff, Gerold, Greger, Henrich,
Jorgen, Kurt, Lorentz, Otto, Radke, Rein, Roleff, Seferin, Tilmann,
Valten, Wulff

Ekalia

Government: Democratic Republic

Ruler: High Elector Andreos Grimani

Capital: Thedis

Language: Ekalian

Official Religion: Dodekarian

Ekalia is a group of islands to the southeast of Gallinea; Thedis is the
largest city-state and center of trade for the region.

The civilizations of the Ekalian isles were old when the Qartan Empire
conquered them, with a history dating back millenia. Ekalians have no
queen or king, but instead choose Electors from among their citizens to
form a ruling council, called the Plenum. From these, the High Elector
is chosen to rule over the island country.

Each island of Ekalia is its own city-state, with economics and politics
within each controlled by one or more powerful merchant families. Ekalia
is renowned for its shipbuilding and trading prowess; Ekalia controls
the Inner Sea like no other navy has since the Qartan Empire.

Names (Traditionally Female): Adalina, Alamanna, Alessandra, Alzeiza,
Andreola, Aulina, Baldanca, Bettina, Cara, Cecilia, Certa, Collela,
Corsa, Dierna, Ducle, Flordiana, Galiana, Gherarda, Imeldina, Jema,
Leni, Lise, Manetta, Mirabillis, Nencia, Oliva, Orsina, Pellegrina,
Perretta, Sassa, Sena, Taddea, Verdiana, Ventura, Vinca, Ymeldina,
Zanobia

Names (Traditionally Male): Allessandro, Agostino, Averardo, Baldassare,
Barixono, Cadere, Carlo, Cassano, Cosimo, Dagnano, Fanucio, Florino,
Gherardo, Giovanni, Justasada, Lazzaro, Marino, Onesto, Orazio,
Pantaleo, Pagolo, Piero, Rudi, Sandro, Strozza, Tozzo, Umberto, Viatti,
Zanobi

Ekalian Style Maneuvers

Maximize Explore: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one Explore
die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Streetwise: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Streetwise roll.

Add Dodge to Lunge: When fighting with a rapier or cutlass in one hand
and a dagger in the other hand, spend 1 Style Point to add Dodge dice to
a Lunge roll.

Ondala

Government: Matrilineal Monarchy

Ruler: (political) Queen Ximena IV, (religious) Matriarch Isabine de la
Justicia

Capital: (officially) Diega, (de facto) Cordera

Language: Ondalan

Official Religion: Asrian

The island nation of Ondala lies off the southwest coast of Gallinea,
across the Ondalan Channel. Ondala was originally settled by the old
Qartan Empire, and the Ondalans view themselves as the true inheritors
of the Qartan golden age.

The city of Cordera is the head of worship of the Goddess-Empress Asria
(also known as Ashra and Eserre), and home to the Matriarch, the leader
of the church hierarchy. Faithful Chaplains from all of Elara come to
Cordera to train in the Holy College before returning to their home
countries for ministry. Other religions are officially banned within
Ondala.

Over the years, Ondala has been at war with Gallinea, Ekalia, and Albia,
but is currently in a time of relative peace with its neighbors. Most
conflicts arise over their aggressive colony, New Cordera, in West Ifran
and its conflicts with its neighbors.

Like Gallinea, Ondala is a matriarchy; Queen Ximena IV has held the
throne for nearly 40 years, and has been known for her many liaisons
with young women and men of the court. Her power is limited by the
edicts of the Church under the direction of the current Matriarch,
Isabine de la Justicia.

Names (Traditionally Female): Ageda, Alatara, Aldinicia, Alvira,
Angelina, Beatris, Belascuza, Blanca, Brigida, Camilia, Catalana,
Castallana, Cosma, Constancza, Damiata, Domeca, Elena, Emazteona,
Eulalia, Eyria, Felipa, Florinda, Gyomar, Inez, Justa, Loreta, Lyanor,
Marquesa, Mencia, Oneca, Ortissa, Quiteria, Ramira, Sancia, Tereysa,
Tecla, Tonixqua, Tsinara, Ursola, Viana, Vicenta, Violante, Yenega,
Ysabet, Zianna

Names (Traditionally Male): Alonso, Alvaro, Arias, Beneyto, Celdoni,
Coli, Diego, Domingo, Felip, Galceran, Gaspar, Gauriel, Gil, Gregorio,
Jeroni, Melchior, Pasqual, Onofre, Pero, Ramon, Rodrigo, Valero,
Vicencio

Ondalan Style Maneuvers

Maximize Scholarship: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one
Scholarship die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Interaction: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Interaction roll.

Add Banter to Parry: When fighting with a rapier in one hand and a
dagger in the other hand, spend 1 Style Point to add Banter dice to a
Parry roll.

Talania

Government: Monarchy (in exile)

Ruler: None, various claimants to the throne

Capital: None (formerly Zamorov)

Language: Talanian

Major Religion: Asrian

Today, thanks to the Shattering Frost, Talania is a mostly uninhabited
land, full of towns that were abandoned, some overnight, when the cold
became too much to bear. Talanian culture survives in the form of
isolated pockets of refugees living throughout the warmer parts of
Elara, including many in Gallinea. Most larger towns contain at least
one “New Zamorov” district where Talanian is spoken in addition to the
native language of the region.

Talanian was known for its intricate clockworks as well as the ability
to live off the land, until the land turned against them.

Names (traditionally female): Anka, Arina, Doina, Krina, Lenuta,
Musatei, Raluka, Smaranda, Viorika

Names (traditionally male): Aron, Basarab, Ciubar, Dragos, Ilias, Ioan,
Iuga, Mircea, Pirvu, Radu, Seneslav, Tihomir, Vintila, Vladislav

Talanian Refugee Style Maneuvers

Maximize Clockworks: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one
Clockworks die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Nature: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll.

Add Carouse to Lunge: When fighting with a saber in one hand, spend 1
Style Point to add Carouse dice to a Lunge roll.

Varendia

Government: Disunited Feudal States

Ruler: No overall ruler at present

Capital: (traditionally) Medtken

Language: Varendish

Major Religion: Asrian

Varendia is a mountainous region northeast of Gallinea, across the
Lendine Mountains.

The people of Varendia originated in the northeast of Elara, in the
frozen wastes now known as Alania. Varendia is a patchwork of small
kingdoms and duchies who rarely manage to work together on much of
anything, as they are busy jockeying for power and wealth in internal
struggles.

Varendia has fought several wars with its neighbors Gallinea and Albia;
the coastal region of Albingia in Varendia remains a flashpoint of
conflict, although it is currently under Varendish rule.

Names (Traditionally Female): Abeleken, Aenlin, Affra, Alheyden, Beken,
Bridlin, Carstine, Claur, Ells, Engel, Ewa, Fronica, Gersche, Greth,
Hille, Ilsebeen, Irmla, Keterlin, Kunlen, Metke, Othilia, Ottilig, Pel,
Prista, Reynse, Susann, Thorlein, Ursula, Walpurg

Names (Traditionally Male): Albrecht, Arndt, Augsten, Bastian, Curt,
Detleff, Dirck, Gangloff, Gerold, Greger, Henrich, Jorgen, Kurt,
Lorentz, Otto, Radke, Rein, Roleff, Seferin, Tilmann, Valten, Wulff

Varendian Style Maneuvers

Maximize Carouse: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one Carouse
die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Military: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military roll.

Add Strategy to Lunge: When fighting with a pike, spend 1 Style Point to
add Strategy dice to a Lunge roll.

Northern Ifran: Pitdah & Ubar

Governments: Independent City-States (Hereditary Nobility)

Rulers: (Pitdah) Khedive Tannous al Ghibr, (Ubar) Calipha Aswani bint
Nura

Language: Ifrani

Major Religion: Devraism

Apart from the ruins of Qarta, two major cities (Pitdah and Ubar) are
found along the northern coast of the Ifrani continent – and then beyond
that, desert as far as the eye can see. The nomadic herders of the
Ifrani Desert follow the religious teachings of Devra, the Desert
Mother, and make pilgrimages to the Lost City of Aad.

Names (Traditionally Female): Jamali, Khadija, Khanzada, Mahisti, Mihri,
Periaconcona, Pertevi. Shahzada

Names (Traditionally Male): Aidere, Amet, Emanguli, Mirize, Salmas,
Solimano, Zalchan

Ifrani Style Maneuvers

Maximize Perceive: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one Perceive
die to its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Nature: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll.

Add Prowl to Riposte: When fighting with a cutlass in one hand and the
other hand empty or holding a pistol, spend 1 Style Point to add Prowl
dice to a Riposte roll.

West Ifran: Elissia

Government: Appointed Colonial Governorship

Ruler: Governor Ysundre de Touriel

Capital: Nouville

Language: Gallinean

Major Religion: Asrian

Clinging to the mountains along the barely habitable west shoreline of
Ifran are the West Ifran Colonies: the tobacco and cotton plantations of
Elissia, the swampy marshes of New Cordera, and the steamy rainforest of
New Dunon.

Elissia was named for then-monarch Queen Elisse of Gallinea and is the
most successful of the small West Ifran colonies. Hardy pioneers and
convicted felons often find their way to Elissia to start a new life.

Elissian Style Maneuvers

Maximize Brawl: Spend 1 Style Point to set the value of one Brawl die to
its maximum value before rolling.

Reroll Nature: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll.

Add Explore to Aim: When using a musket outdoors, spend 1 Style Point to
add Explore dice to an Aim roll.

Mwene Karanga

Government: Presumed Monarchy

Ruler: Unknown

Capital: Unknown

Language: Karangan

Major Religion: Unknown

Inland Ifran, beyond the desert, is known as the Farthest South, and is
ruled by a kingdom known as Mwene Karanga – a highly advanced and
wealthy jungle empire that cares little for the affairs of far-northern
Elara.

Languages

Albian: The language of Albia.

Ekalian: Spoken primarily in Ekalia, and sometimes among sailors and
merchants for its utility as a trade language; Ekalian is also one of
the official languages of Dragosa.

Gallinean: The official language of Gallinea, derived from Old Qartan
with Albian, Ekalian, and Varendish influence.

Ifrani: Distantly related to Old Qartan, Ifrani is spoken throughout the
northern half of the Ifran continent.

Old Qartan: Once the universal language of the Qartan Empire, now only
used in practice by Asrian clergy, theologians, and historians.

Ondalan: The language of Ondala, derived primarily from Old Qartan.

Talanian: Considered by some to be a dying language, Talanian is
primarily spoken by refugees from the frozen north and their southern
neighbors in Dragosa.

Varendish: The language of Varendia, also spoken as a second language by
some in Scanbria, as well as being one of the primary languages of
Dragosa.

Days and Dates

Gallinea and the rest of Elara use a calendar system derived from the
old Qartan calendar. 

◦ Each day is 24 hours.

◦ Each week is six days.

◦ Each month is thirty days, which is five weeks.

◦ Each year is 360 days, which is twelve months and 60 weeks.

The default starting date for a campaign of The Queen's Cavaliers is 1
Messidor 1249 PQ, which is the start of summer in Queen Mariana's fifth
year on the Gallinean throne.

Years

Years in Elara are measured from the abandonment of Qarta (Post Qarta),
which dates to 1 PQ. Dates before 1 PQ are dated backwards with Before
Qarta (BQ). A year without PQ/BQ notation is presumed to be PQ.

Months

Months are named for the common weather in Lutetia during each month.

Number

Month Name

Birthstone

Season

1

Pluviôse

Garnet

Winter

2

Ventôse

Amethyst

3

Germinal

Bloodstone

Spring

4

Floréal

Sapphire

5

Prairial

Agate

6

Messidor

Emerald

Summer

7

Fervidor

Onyx

8

Fructidor

Carnelian

9

Vendémiaire

Peridot

Autumn

10

Brumaire

Beryl

11

Frimaire

Topaz

12

Nivôse

Ruby

Winter

The neighboring countries have their own days for the months in their
own languages. For example, in the Albian language, the months are
Rainous, Windous, Buddal, Floweral, Meadowal, Reapidor, Heatidor,
Fruitidor, Vintagearious, Fogarious, Frostarious, and Snowous.

Days of the Week

There are six days of the week in the Gallinean calendar. There are 5
weeks in every month. 

Number

Day Name

1

Moon Day

2

Second Day

3

Third Day

4

Fourth Day

5

Stars Day

6

Sun Day

Asrian worship services are held on Sun Day, which is usually a day off
for most. Devrans worship the Desert Goddess on Moon Day, after the sun
has gone down.

Monthly Calendar

Because there are five six-day weeks in every month, each month's
calendar is the same.

Moon Day

Second Day

Third Day

Fourth Day

Stars Day

Sun Day

Week Name

1

2

3

4

5

6

First Week

7

8

9

10

11

12

Second Week

13

14

15

16

17

18

Third Week

19

20

21

22

23

24

Fourth Week

25

26

27

28

29

30

Fifth Week

  

Religions

Asrianism

Originally worshiped as a sun deity by the Qartans, belief in the
Goddess-Empress Ashra (Eserre in Gallinea) has spread throughout Elara.
Asrianism is the state religion of Ondala, Gallinea, Dragosa and
Varendia, and the complex hierarchy of the faith is centered in Cardera.
Asrian clergy are known as Chaplains, and are led by Guardians of the
Faith.

The holy scriptures of the Asrian faith are collected The Books of the
Sun, and the head of the Asrian church is the Matriarch, Isabene de la
Justicia, Bride of the Sun. The symbol of Asrian is Ashra's Sun (known
as the soleil-de-eserre in Gallinean), which appears on the flags of
Ondala and Gallinea.

Asrianism is centered around nine principles, purportedly laid down by
the goddess Ashra, known as the Nine Precepts. The Precepts are
traditionally divided into three groups: The Three Professions, The
Three Directives, and The Three Prohibitions.

The Three Professions

1\. There is one Sun in the sky, source of light and life.

2\. Light, life, and love are the Sun's gifts to us.

3\. We are all of us children of the Sun.

The Three Directives

4\. Freely partake of only that which has been given to you.

5\. Repay kindness three times, and harm but once.

6\. Truth endures forever while falsehoods wither in the light.

The Three Prohibitions

7\. Let no man be superior to a woman.

8\. Let no one own another person.

9\. Let no one kill except to sustain life.

Devranism

Worship of Devra, the Desert Mother, is all but banned in Gallinea since
the death of Queen Elisse, but that doesn't stop the puritanical
Speakers from representing their faith despite persecution. Preaching a
gospel of strict austerity and rigid discipline, the Devrans claim very
simple relationships directly with their deity and eschew the complex
clerical structure of the Asrians.

Devrans follow the teachings found in the Songs of the Desert Mother, an
ancient collection of poems, stories, hymns, and parables collected over
the millennia by followers of Devra, the Desert Mother. Such scriptures
are unique to each Devran, with a different set of songs based on one's
ancestry, family traditions, hometown, and religious community.

The symbol of Devra is a half-moon, usually depicted over a desert oasis
or the Lost City of Aad.

Dualitarianism

A uniquely Albian heresy developed in the last two centuries, holding
that the Goddess-Empress and the Desert Mother are the same being.
Dualitarians keep the hierarchical structure of the Asrian church while
adopting the stern moralism of the Devrans. Dualitarianism is legal
within Gallinea but is regarded with skepticism and often, outright
hostility.

The Asrian scriptures, the Books of the Sun, and the Devran scriptures,
Songs of the Desert Mother, are supplemented by a book written by Dackin
Orwand, founder of Dualitarianism, called Orwand's Revelation.
Revelation purports to describe the direct equivalence between Devran
and Asrian beliefs while reinterpreting both to fit the theology of the
Dualitarians. Dualitarians are sometimes scornfully called Orwandans by
members of the Asrian faith, but no Dualitarian would ever apply that
term to herself.

Dualitarians eschew symbology save for a simple horizontal
cross-ordinary, symbolizing the convergence of the Asrian and Devran
religions in a single faith; such a cross can be seen in the Albian
national flag.

Dodekarian

The islands of Ekalia have long worshiped the High Twelve, a pantheon of
female and male deities who rule over the heavens as a celestial
council. Ekalian theologians later identified Teia, the goddess of the
sun, with the Goddess-Empress Ashra, and her sister Demith, the goddess
of justice, as the Desert Mother Devra, although neither of the
monotheistic faiths accepts these conclusions.

The symbol of the Dodekarian faith is a regular geometric solid with
twelve sides, each pentagonal face containing the symbol of one of the
High Twelve.

Deity

Gender

Domains

Symbol

Demith

Female

The Night Sky; Justice

Balanced Sword

Dethius

Female

The Middle Sea; Prosperity

Ripples on Water

Jathys

Male

Craftsmanship; Commerce

Bronze Spear

Keanos

Male

The Great Sea; Weather

Crashing Wave

Koi

Male

Exploration; Knowledge

North Star

Nemosei

Female

Memory; Artistic Inspiration

Black Harp

Peryon

Male

Vigilance; Family

White Cloud

Reios

Male

Politics; The Underworld

Stone Doorway

Ronu

Male

Agriculture; Plants and Fruit

Harvest Scythe

Siobe

Female

The Moon; Portents and Magicks

Silver Moon

Sybrea

Female

Motherhood; Animals

White Swan

Teia 

Female

The Sun; Rulership

Golden Disc
