# (chapter) Chapter 12: Lutetia

Lutetia: A Guide to the City

Lutetia is a large metropolis of over 550,000 permanent residents that
sprawls across both banks of the Luisante river and four islands,
overlooking Lake Luisante. Sixteen wide bridges reach across the
Luisante, each one giving its name to the surrounding neighborhoods.

History

\#\#

Organization

The city of Lutetia and the immediately surrounding countryside are
ruled by the Queen of Gallinea as a royal province, but the day-to-day
adminstration of the city is turned over to the Lady-Mayor of Lutetia.
The Lady-Mayor (or, sometimes, Lord-Mayor) is appointed directly by the
Queen herself and serves at the Queen's pleasure, although it's
traditional for a term as Lady-Mayor to last for five years.

The current Lady-Mayor of Lutetia is Lusienne, countess of Castenia, who
has been in office for three years now. Lady-Mayor Lusienne is skilled
at playing the various nobles, guildmasters, and ambassadors of the
Royal Court off each other, preserving the interests of the Queen while
allowing Her Majesty to remain above much of the petty politicking.

Lutetia is divided up into 55 different arrondissements, or
neighborhoods, named after the 16 bridges that span the Luisante. When a
resident of Lutetia speaks of her location or address within the city,
she talks of arrondissement of that location. Lutetian arrondissements
are mostly wedge-shaped neighborhoods that reach out from the central
islands to the edge of the city.

There are usually four parts to an arrondissement – the portion on a
central island, the bridge itself, the section on one of the banks of
the Luisante but within the Old Wall, and the corresponding region
outside the Wall. 

These sections are referred to with sur l'île (on the island), sur le
pont (on the bridge), travers le pont (across the bridge), and delà du
mur (beyond the wall). Thus, a resident could speak of her home as being
in the 8th arrondissement, delà du mur, and her school in the 7th
travers le pont.

Some exceptions exist. Île Royale, the home of the royal palace, is
always just Île Royale, its own arrondissement. The 1st Bridge spans the
Luisante but not the islands, so the two sides are rive ouest (West
Bank) and rive est (East bank). Because of the geography of the islands,
there is no delà du mur for the 4th, 5th, and 12th Bridges.

Features of the City

The most notable feature of Lutetia is the Luisante River, which flows
from headwaters in the northern part of Gallinea through the city, where
it forms Luisante Lake. The Luisante then flows south through the
country to Valerienne, where it empties into the Middle Sea.

Luisante means “sparkling” and the river mostly lives up to its name
until it enters the capital, where the extensive underground Lutetian
sewer system meets its waters. The sides of the river are reinforced
with stone walls that form hard channels to control the Luisante until
it spills into the lake to the south of the city.

The four islands at the center of the city are the oldest parts of
Lutetia. The first Qartan settlements were on the largest island, Île de
Lutetia, which was originally surrounded by a wooden, and later stone,
wall. Only a few signs of this original wall remain today, mostly in a
few random sides of old buildings overlooking the river.

The next largest island, Île Royale, is home to the royal palace. The
two smaller islands, Île Citadelle and Île Rocheuse, are named for the
stone castles that dominate each.

The Old Wall was built to surround the islands and the parts of the city
on the east and west banks of the Luisante, but in recent decades
Lutetia has overgrown the boundaries of the wall and expanded out
further into the Gallinean countryside.

Besides the two castles on Île Citadelle and Île Rocheuse, Lutetia is
defended by three stone fortresses ringing the city – La Guette to the
northwest, l'Arsenal to the east, and Le Puissant to the southwest. The
newly constructed Airship Tower at Le Puissant serves an important role
in protecting the city from aerial assault.

Four ancient roads, dating back to the days of the Qartan Empire, meet
in Lutetia on the central Île de Lutetia: Rue de la Rivière, Rue de
Scanbria, Rue du Coeur, and Rue du Sud. Gardens and parks abound in
Lutetia, most notably those along the entire length of the Rue du Coeur
on the central island – which is the scene for many parades and
festivals throughout the year.

The laws of Gallinea are enforced by the city's constabulatory,
operating out of small precinct houses around Lutetia and centered in La
Roche, a converted castle now used as a prison on Île Rocheuse. Those
who break the law are tried in the courts of the Palais de Justice.

Arrondissements of Lutetia

\#\#

Île Royale

\#\#

Royal Palace of Gallinea (A)

\#\#

1st Bridge, Pont Nord

\#\#

2nd Bridge, Pont de Scanbria

\#\#

La Guette (Z)

3rd Bridge, Pont à l'Ouest

\#\#

l'Academie d'Officiers Militaires (Y)

\#\#

4th Bridge, Pont Interne

\#\#

5th Bridge, Pont Est

\#\#

The Citadel (B)

\#\#

6th Bridge, Pont de la Reine

\#\#

Library of Gallinea (I)

\#\#

7th Bridge, Pont des Universités

\#\#

Universities of Lutetia

\#\#

8th Bridge, Pont du Temple

\#\#

Grand Cathedral of the Sun (D)

\#\#

L'Observatoire (L)

\#\#

L'Infirmerie (M)

\#\#

9th Bridge, Pont de Coeur

\#\#

l'Arsenal (N)

\#\#

10th Bridge, Pont de Marché

\#\#

Les Ruelles (G)

\#\#

Le Théâtre du Monde (O)

\#\#

Temple of the Moon (P)

\#\#

11th Bridge, Pont Lac

\#\#

12th Bridge, Pont Roche

\#\#

La Roche Prison (R)

\#\#

13th Bridge, Pont de la Rivière

\#\#

Palais de Lutetia (I)

\#\#

14th Bridge, Pont Sud

\#\#

Le Théâtre de la Rive (F)

\#\#

Le Puissant (S)

\#\#

Airship Tower (T)

\#\#

15th Bridge, Pont Grande

\#\#

La Dame de la Victoire (E)

\#\#

La Chapelle de Jardin (V)

\#\#

16th Bridge, Pont Neuf

\#\#

Palais de Justice (C)

\#\#

Les Écuries Royales de Lutetia (X)

\#\#

Landmarks of Lutetia

Royal Palace

\#\#

The Citadel

\#\#

Palais de Justice

\#\#

Grand Cathedral of the Sun

\#\#

La Dame de la Victoire

\#\#

Le Théâtre de la Rive

\#\#

Les Ruelles

\#\#

Palais de Lutetia

\#\#

Library of Gallinea

\#\#

Universities of Lutetia

\#\#

Mechanicians' Guildhall

\#\#

l'Observatoire

\#\#

l'Infirmerie

\#\#

l'Arsenal

\#\#

Le Théâtre du Monde

\#\#

Temple of the Moon

\#\#

Les Quais

\#\#

La Roche Prison

\#\#

Le Puissant

\#\#

Airship Tower

\#\#

Alchemists' Guildhall

\#\#

La Chapelle de Jardin

\#\#

Charmweavers' Guildhall

\#\#

Les Écuries

\#\#

l'Académie d'Officiers Militaires

\#\#

La Guette

\#\#

Bridges of Lutetia

1

Pont Nord

North Bridge

Travelers, Guards, Mercenaries

2

Pont de Scanbria

Scanbrian Bridge

Rue de Scanbria

Foreign Diplomats, Ambassadors

3

Pont à l'Ouest

West Bridge

Tailors, Charmweavers

4

Pont Interne

Middle Bridge

Holy Guardsmen, Judges

5

Pont Est

East Bridge

Cavaliers

6

Pont de la Reine

Queen's Bridge

Professors, Librarians, Authors

7

Pont des Universités

University Bridge

Scholars, Students

8

Pont du Temple

Temple Bridge

Priests

9

Pont de Coeur

Heart Bridge

Rue du Coeur

Travelers

10

Pont de Marché

Market Bridge

Merchants, Craftsmen

11

Pont Lac

Lake Bridge

12

Pont Roche

Rock Bridge

Château de la Roche

City Guard

13

Pont de la Rivière

River Bridge

Rue de la Riviere

14

Pont Sud

South Bridge

Rue du Sud

Actors, Performers

15

Pont Grande

High Bridge

Rue du Coeur

Travelers

16

Pont Neuf

New Bridge

Soldiers

Islands: (in order of size)

Île de Lutetia

Île Royale

Île Citadelle

Île Rocheuse

New Letter

Name

Note (not shown on map key)

Old Letter

A

Royal Palace

Home of the Queen

A

B

The Citadel

Queen's Cavaliers HQ

B

C

Palais de Justice

Courts

R 

D

Grand Cathedral of the Sun

D

E

La Dame de la Victoire

Statue “La Dame”

G

F

Le Théâtre de la Rive

Theater

Z

G

Les Ruelles

Marketplace

H

H

Palais de Lutetia

Mayor's Residence

I

I

Library of Gallinea

U

J

Universities of Lutetia

C

K

Mechanicians' Guildhall

Q

L

l'Observatoire

Astronomical Observatory

T

M

l'Infirmerie

Hospital

Y

N

l'Arsenal

Castle

K

O

Le Théâtre du Monde

Theater

J

P

Temple of the Moon

Only Devran church

S

Q

Les Quais

The Docks

P

R

La Roche Prison

Castle

E

S

Le Puissant

Castle

L

T

Airship Tower

X

U

Alchemists' Guildhall

W

V

La Chapelle de Jardin

The Garden Chapel “La Chapelle”

O

W

Charmweavers' Guildhall

V

X

Les Écuries

The Stables

N

Y

l'Académie d'Officiers Militaires

Military Academy “l'Academie”

M

Z

La Guette

Castle

F
