# History of Albia

The earliest known kingdom in Albia was the Mathac civilization,
centered around what is now known as Bear Island. The Mathains rose to
rule over a peninsula that was united for the first time, although it
lasted less than two centuries before falling to the Qartan Empire. Only
Bear Island itself escaped being conquered by the Empire of the Sun,
while the rest of Albia had its first female ruler -- a regent appointed
by far-off Qarta.

Despite constant, low-level guerrilla insurgency, Qarta's regents
managed to keep a hold on Albia until the Empire itself fell. As the
Qartan legions crumbled, the Mathains returned from their island exile,
only to find an Albia they scarcely recognized. Widespread Asrian
beliefs and Qartan social mores meant that the populace could never
truly be Mathac again.

The Reconquest of Albia, then, was more of a prolonged period of
cultural blending than an actual military campaign, eventually resulting
in a society that was not fully Mathac, not fully Qartan.

With the Reconquest occupying the attention of Albians for generations,
the world went on as if the peninsula didn't exist. During this time of
isolationism, intermarriage between the Mathains and the Qartans worked
to unite the country. Older Mathac customs, such as rule by a king
regnant, fit together with worship of Ashra, the Qartan sun goddess.

Established as a single nation, the Albians emerged from their isolation
to begin pushing into the rest of Elara. With Varendia in one of its own
cycles of disunity, the Albians were able to claim Albingia with minimal
military force, holding it against the scheming Varendish nobles for
over a century.

Albia faced more resistance when expanding into Gallinea; the first
Albian War led to a complete rout of the Albian armies, driven back deep
into their home peninsula. This would be the first of many wars between
the two nations, with the most recent ending a mere eight years ago in
1241.

Blocked from claiming more territory in Elara, the Albians began to
settle the lands of western Ifran, finding mostly cold and dismal
swampland huddling in the mountains of Ifran's Spine. The discovery of
phlogistone on land claimed by both Gallinean and Albian colonists
precipitated the start of the 20 Year's War in 1221. 

With both nations feeling the weight of two decades of war and Albia
suffering under the Elaran Plague, secret negotiations spearheaded by
the Duke of Bedyngford on the Albian side and Chaplain Farrazin, then
Gallinea's Minister of Peace, led to the Treaty of Scanbreille. The
Treaty arranged a political marriage between Princess Mariana of
Gallinea and Prince Carolus of Albia, the younger siblings to the heirs
apparent of each country.

Diplomatic ties between Albia and Gallinea are stronger than they've
ever been, as Carolus is now Prince-Consort to Queen Mariana, due to the
assassinations of Mariana's mother and older sister. However, old
rivalries die hard, and old war injuries even harder.

King Edgar and Queen-Consort Fionna still regret that they did not marry
Prince Edmund, their eldest son and heir apparent, to Princess Mariana,
as they envision a Greater Albia that stretches from the tip of the
Storm Islands to the Jeweled Coast. Under Albian rule, of course.

:::::::::::::::::::::: sidebar ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
A Uniquely Albian Heresy

Dualiatarian is a religious philosophy developed in the last two
centuries, holding that the Goddess-Empress and the Desert Mother are
the same being. Dualitarians keep the hierarchical structure of the
Asrian church while adopting the stern moralism of the Devrans.
Dualitarian clergy are known as Pilgrims.

The Asrian scriptures, the *Books of the Sun*, and the Devran
scriptures, *Songs of the Desert Mother*, are supplemented by a book
written by Dackin Orwand -- the founder of Dualitarianism -- called
*Orwand's Revelation*. *Revelation* purports to describe the direct
equivalence between Devran and Asrian beliefs while reinterpreting both
to fit the theology of the Dualitarians. Dualitarians are sometimes
scornfully called Orwandans by members of the Asrian faith, but no
Dualitarian would ever apply that term to herself.

Dualitarians eschew symbology save for a simple horizontal
*cross-ordinary*, symbolizing the convergence of the Asrian and Devran
religions in a single faith; such a cross can be seen in the Albian
national flag.
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Elaran Plague

*description needed* 

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: illustration-right :::::::::::::::::::::::::
![King Edgar II of Albia, by Eleanor Ferron](assets/Portraits/king-edgar.jpg "King Edgar II of Albia, by Eleanor Ferron")
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Royal Family

Prince-consort Carolus, Mariana's husband, is the youngest son of King
Edgar II and Queen Fionna. Their eldest son Crown Prince Edmund (36
years old) is next in line for the throne. In between the two is
Princess Anabentine (33) and Prince Rupert (32). Carolus also has 3
younger sisters, twin Princessess Mariah and Esther (25) and Princess
Aurelia (21). 

King Edgar has two surviving younger sisters, Princesses Elizabeth and
Victoria. Princess Elizabeth has chosen to devote her life to the
Dualitarian faith as has her niece Anabentine. Victoria and her wife
have five children total.

Queen Fionna and her sister Lillian were the last surviving members of
House Warrington, a great noble family that was plagued by daughters in
the last two generations. After Fionna wed then-Prince Edgar she
arranged for her sister to marry a royal-adjacent cousin, Fitzwilliam
Bosevell. As Fitzwilliam and Edgar were particularly close, the formerly
Warrington sisters remained close as well. Lillian had six children
herself -- Fitzwilliam, John, Morgan, Matthew, Margaret, and Walter.

