### Weapon Qualities

When you craft a weapon, it's assumed to be a "stock" version of that
weapon as described in Chapter 8, "Equipment." If you want to add
something extra to a crafted weapon, you can add a Weapon Quality to
that weapon. Each specialty's crafting description lists which qualities
can be given to each type of weapon. The maximum number of Weapon
Qualities you can add to any given weapon equals your rank in the
crafting Specialty.

Rather than repeating the descriptions of Weapon Qualities in each
crafting specialty, they're listed here for easy reference. You can't
add the same Weapon Quality twice to a single weapon.

  - **Cavalry:** A weapon with the Cavalry quality must be used with
    your Main Hand. If you are using this weapon while riding a mount,
    you can substitute the mount's Item Die for your Weapon Die against
    an unmounted opponent.
  - **Defending:** You can use this weapon to make a Defense (Parry)
    roll and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though this type
    of weapon usually can't be used for parrying.
  - **Double-Barreled:** You can fire twice, once per barrel, without
    reloading. If you choose to fire both barrels in the same shot, the
    Weapon Die increases by one step, but you take a Drop 1 penalty
    because it's harder to aim. Reloading each barrel separately gives
    the normal Drop penalty for the unaltered weapon, and reloading both
    barrels is a Drop 4 combined action.
  - **Extended Long Range:** The weapon gains a Drop 2 penalty at Long
    range. This can only be applied to weapons which can't normally be
    used at Long range, but which can be used at Medium range.
  - **Extended Medium Range:** The weapon gains a Drop 2 penalty at
    Medium range. This can only be applied to weapons which can't
    normally be used at Medium range.
  - **High-Caliber:** Increase the Weapon Die by one step. The Drop
    penalty for reloading the weapon increases by 1, and the Drop
    penalty at Long range increases by 2.
  - **Lightened:** Decrease the Weapon Die by one step. If the unaltered
    weapon could be used in your main hand, you can now use it in
    either. If the weapon required two hands to use, it can now be used
    with just the main hand. You can't lighten a weapon that's been
    weighted.
  - **Point Blank:** Decrease the Drop Penalty for Close range by 2.
  - **Quickloading:** Decrease the Drop Penalty for reloading this
    weapon by 1.
  - **Reach:** The weapon can be used to attack into an adjacent area as
    well as your own.
  - **Responding:** The weapon can be used to make a Dueling (Riposte)
    roll and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though this type
    of weapon usually can't be used for riposting.
  - **Rifled:** Reduce the Drop Penalty at Medium range by 1 and at Long
    range by 1.
  - **Sparring:** You can use this weapon to make a Military (Brawl)
    roll and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even though weapons
    usually can't be used with Brawl.
  - **Success Table: Specialty (Option)** You add an option
    for spending success points to a specific Success Table. The details
    for each option are described later in this section.
  - **Throwable:** You can throw this weapon at a target using the
    Military (Aim) skill and add the Weapon Die to your dice pool, even
    though this type of weapon usually can't be thrown. The weapon has
    no Drop penalty at Close range, Drop 1 at Short range, and Drop 3 at
    Medium range.
  - **Weighted:** Increase the Weapon Die by one step. If the weapon
    could be used in either hand, it now is only usable in your main
    hand. If the unaltered weapon required your main hand, it now
    requires both hands. You can't weight a weapon that's been
    lightened.

#### Success Table Options

The Success Table: *Specialty* quality adds additional options to the
indicated success table.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: success :::::::::::::::::::::::::::
| Success Table Weapon Qualities  |                                   |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| \+                              |  Basket Hilt (Decrease Advantage) |
| \+                              |  Retort (Execute a Riposte)       |
| \+++                            |  Entangling                       |
| \+++                            |  Tripping (Knockdown)             |
| \+++                            |  Unhorse                          |
| \+++                            |  Wounding (Inflict 1 Wound)       |
| \+++                            |  Yielding (Inflict 4 Yield)       |
| \++++                           |  Disarming                        |
| \+++++                          |  Weapon-Breaking                  |
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

**Basket Hilt:** If your opponent has Advantage, you can decrease her
die size by one step, or remove her Advantage Die entirely if she has
+1D6 Advantage. Weapons with this quality are designed for parrying.

**Disarming:** You can disarm your opponent of the weapon she is using
to attack you or the weapon she's using to Parry your attack. (This
can't be used when defending against a Brawl attack.) You get to choose
if the weapon ends up on the ground in your Area, in an adjacent Area,
or in your hand if you have one free. Weapons with this quality are
designed for disarming opponents.

**Entangling:** You successfully catch your opponent with your weapon,
holding them in place. A combatant who is held suffers a Drop 1 penalty
on attack and defense rolls; for every two additional Success Points you
spend, you can increase the Drop penalty by 1, to a maximum of Drop 4.
Your opponent can escape by making a simple check against Standard
Opposition, usually using Brawl or a weapon attack.

**Retort:** You can make a Riposte attack. Weapons with this quality are
designed for parrying and allow a Riposte to be made for a lower cost
than usual.

**Tripping:** Your target is knocked prone, either in your Area or in an
adjacent Area. Knocking an opponent into an adjacent Area can result in
them falling or otherwise taking environmental damage. Weapons with this
quality are designed to pull an opponent off her feet.

**Unhorse:** If your target is riding a mount, they fall off that mount
and end up prone. Unhorsing an opponent can result in them falling or
otherwise taking environmental damage. In addition, your mount can make
a trample attack right now for free, if it has that quality. Standing up
is a Drop 1 combined action, and remounting is an additional Drop 3
penalty. Weapons with this quality are designed for dismounting
opponents.

**Weapon-Breaking:** You snap your target's blade or hilt. You can only
do this if your target attempts to Parry your attack and fails, or if
you are performing a Parry yourself. Weapons with this quality are
designed for catching and destroying weapons.

**Wounding:** Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes more Wounds
than her Wound Limit, she falls unconscious and is dying. Weapons with
this quality allow you to inflict Wounds for a lower cost than usual.

**Yielding:** Your opponent takes four Yield. If her Yield equals or
exceeds her Yield Limit, she is Yielded Out. Weapons with this quality
allow you to inflict Yield for a lower cost than usual.


