## Alchemical Items

Characters with the Magicks (Brew) specialty can produce draughts,
salves, and concoctions.

### (section) Draughts

Imbibing a draught is a Drop 1 combined action if the item is in hand;
the effects last until the end of the scene. Draughts with increased
potency have a cost equal to the die value; e.g., a D10 Aggression
Draught has a cost of D10.

Draughts provide a Charm die bonus on a given specialty. Since you can
only include one Charm die in a given dice pool, a character can't
benefit from both the draught and a charmwoven item that affect the same
specialty, only one or the other.

A starting character with the Alchemist or Witch class can purchase
draughts by paying the appropriate amount of Alchemical Supplies.

Item

Cost (Supplies)

Charm Die

Affected Specialty

Accuracy Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Military (Aim)

Aggression Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Dueling (Lunge)

Courage Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Remove 1D6 Yield

Detective's Vice

D6 B (1)

D6

Observation (Deduce)

Eagle Eyes Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Observation (Perceive)

Elusiveness Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Defense (Dodge)

Mathematical Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Science (Calculus)

Memory Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

All knowledge rolls

Serpent's Tongue Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Interaction (Deceive)

Soothing Words Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Interaction (Negotiate)

Tactics Draught

D6 B (1)

D6

Military (Strategy)

Teetotaler's Tea

D6 B (1)

D6

Streetwise (Carouse)

### (section) Salves

Salves, oils, and unguents are applied externally, requiring one turn to
use, and the effects last until the end of the scene. Salves with
increased potency have a cost equal to the die value.

A starting character with the Alchemist or Witch class can purchase
draughts by paying the appropriate amount of Alchemical Supplies.

Item

Cost (Supplies)

Die

Function

Brawler's Balm

D6 B (1)

D6

Military (Brawl)

Farmer's Salve

D6 B (1)

D6

Nature (Husbandry)

Fireproofing Oil

D6 B (1)

D6

Science (Blackpowder)

Healing Unguent

D6 B (1)

D6

Medicine (Surgery, Treat) rolls made on the recipient

Nimblefingers Unction

D6 B (1)

D6

Streetwise (Larceny)

Silence Oil

D6 B (1)

D6

Nature (Prowl)

Weaver's Lotion

D6 B (1)

D6

Magicks (Weave)

### (section) Concoctions

Concoctions are mixtures that can be prepared beforehand or activated on
the spot by an alchemist orother character with skill in Magicks (Brew).
Making a Brew roll to produce a concoction takes one turn, with Moderate
(3D8) standard opposition; successes are spent as shown on the table
below. Each concoction created requires the expenditure of one unit of
Alchemical Supplies.

Concoction

Effect Produced

Firefly Glow

Phosphorescent chemicals that glow for one hour per  spent. Can be
applied to one item of pocket, handheld, or portable size.

Nauseating Smell

A horrible odor fills one Area per  spent.

Neutralizing Agent

Negate one persistent effect caused by any concoction per  spent.

Oil Slick

Dodge rolls in an adjacent Area take a Drop penalty equal to the number
of  spent.

Photoreactive Flash

A flash of light that can be seen up to one league away for every 
spent.

Smoke Cloud

A cloud of harmless smoke that fills one Area per  spent.

### (subchapter) Poisons

There are three types of standard poisons in general use: lethal poison,
impairing poison, and sleep poison. For general rules on how to use and
apply poison, see the Medicine (Poison) specialty in the Skills
document.

Poisons are created by expending Alchemical Supplies and making a
Medicine (Poison) roll. New characters who are provocateurs can choose
which poisons they wish to begin with.

Poison antidote is general-use and can be used against any type of
standard poison. It's ineffective against some exotic poisons, such as
yellow-bellied scorpion venom.

Item

Cost

Function

Antidote

D6 B

Expend 1 per use of Poison

Poison, deadly

D6 B

Expend 1 per use of Poison

Poison, impairing

D6 B

Expend 1 per use of Poison

Poison, sleep

D6 B

Expend 1 per use of Poison

Deadly Poison

: Inflict 1 Wound

Inflict 1 Wound: Your opponent takes one Wound. If she takes Wounds
equalling her Wound Limit (which is four for player characters, and from
one to four for non-player characters), she falls unconscious and is
dying.

Impairing Poison

: Inflict Drop Penalty

Inflict Drop Penalty: Your opponent gains a Drop penalty on all rolls
equal to one die for every three Success Points you spend, up to a
maximum of Drop 4. This impairment lasts for 1 hour.

Sleep Poison

: Inflict 1 Yield

Inflict 1 Yield: Your opponent takes one Yield for every Success Point
you spend on Yield. If her Yield equals or exceeds her Yield Limit, she
is Yielded Out.
