(chapter) Chapter 8: Equipment

In this chapter, we'll look at the mundane clothes, weapons, tools, and
other items that a cavalier might use during the course of her day.

More exotic equipment -- such as clockwork devices, alchemical salves,
and charmwoven clothes -- are detailed in Chapter 9, "Specialty
Equipment."

(section) Item Scale

Every item has a scale that describes the general size of the item:
pocket scale, handheld scale, portable scale, human scale, furniture
scale, room scale, and building scale. In general, it's easy enough to
determine the scale of most items, but for some items a scale is
explicitly listed in the lists that follow.

The scale concept is used in the optional rules for Encumbrance, later
in this chapter, as well as for clockwork devices in Chapter 9,
"Specialty Equipment," and animals in Chapter 20, "Opponents."

(subsection) Pocket Scale

A pocket-scale device is light, easily concealed, requires only one hand
to operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing
without attracting undue notice. Examples include small pistols or
knives, flasks of alchemical brews, and a pet mouse. 

Weapons of this size are classified as Either Hand weapons.

(subsection) Handheld Scale

A handheld item usually requires one hand to operate and can be carried
on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Most can't be easily
concealed unless you're willing to forego easy access. Examples include
most swords, tool kits, bucklers, and large hats.

When describing animals, such as cats or small dogs, handheld scale is
known as pet scale. Weapons of this size are classified as Main Hand
weapons.

(subsection) Portable Scale

A portable-scale item is one which requires two hands to carry and
operate, or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Examples include
two-handed swords, muskets, and bar stools.

The equivalent scale for animals is companion scale. A portable-scale
weapon is classified a Both Hands weapon.

(subsection) Human Scale

An object roughly the size of a person – such as a statue or a suit of
rigid armor – can't be easily carried by a single person without
requiring her full attention. Other examples include work carts, heavy
chairs, and velocipedes.

(subsection) Furniture Scale

Larger than a human but smaller than a room, a carriage-scale item is
around the size of a bed, a wardrobe dresser, or a small carriage. At
best, an adult human can drag a furniture-scale item around but can't
pick it up. Other furniture-scale items are horses, rowboats, and
thrones.

In descriptions of animals, furniture scale is known as mount scale.

(subsection) Room Scale

Room-scale items can be rooms themselves, the amount of furnishings it
takes to fill up a room, or an object of comparable size. In combat,
each room-scale item is usually its own Area.

Mammoth scale is the equivalent of room scale when describing animals.

### (subsection) Building Scale

Building-scale items include buildings, of course, but also large
vehicles such as sailing ships or airships. In combat situations, a
building-scale object is usually divided into multiple Areas.

When talking about animals this large, such as giant squids or great
whales, the term behemoth scale is used.

(sidebar) Option: Encumbrance

This is an optional rule that the MJ can use if it will enhance her
game. In most cases, the calculations are more effort than they're worth
and rarely provide any actual change in the game. However, if the
players start carrying around dozens of heavy items, the MJ might decide
that this use can help bring her players' gear into line with her
expectations for the game. *The Queen's Cavaliers* is a swashbuckling
action game, and not about lugging around heavy weights\!

(section) Carrying Limit

A human carrying a Person-sized object takes a Drop 2 penalty on attack
rolls (Dueling, Brawl, and Aim), and cannot move more than one area in a
given turn. Humans cannot usually move items of Carriage size or higher,
unless it's got wheels or something similar.

Example: You pick up an unconscious colleague and carry her over your
shoulders. That's obviously a Person-sized object, so you get a Drop 2
penalty and can't run.

(subsection) Combining Encumbrance

Three items of a smaller size are equivalent to one item of larger size.
So three Portable items are as bulky and heavy as one Person-sized
object -- meaning if you're carrying a musket, a zweihander, and a pike
(all Portable-sized objects), you've got the equivalent of a
Person-sized object and take the Drop 2 penalty, plus you can't run.

Three Pocket-sized items equal a Handheld object; three Handheld-sized
items equal a Portable object; and three Portable-sized items equal a
Person-sized object. You could carry eight Handheld objects -- say, a
cutlass, a buckler, and a brace of six pistols tied together by rope --
and not be slowed down, because that only equals two Portable items,
which is less than a Person-sized object.

(subsection) Worn Items

Items that are specifically designed to be worn -- and which can't be
removed easily during the middle of a fight (and sometimes, even after a
fight) -- count as one size lower for purposes of encumbrance when worn.
A suit of armor is normally Person-sized, but if you're wearing it, it
counts as Portable-sized. (If you're trying to carry an empty suit of
armor, though, it counts as Person-sized.) A worn breastplate (Portable)
counts as a Handheld item. 

Pocket-sized items which are worn don't count at all for encumbrance
purposes, unless you're wearing three of the same kind -- for example, a
worn wrist holster (Pocket) or two doesn't weigh you down at all. Three
worn wrist holsters, however, would equal a Pocket-sized objects -- base
size of Pocket, stepped up to Handheld for three of them, then stepped
down again to Pocket size for being worn.

Clothing of any type never counts for calculating encumbrance -- it's
all considered Pocket size (regardless of actual size) and thus is not
included when worn unless you're doing something silly like wearing
three different capes at the same time.

(subsection) Other Things That Don't Weigh Very Much

Medicine, alchemy supplies, draughts and unguents, poisons, and other
small consumables don't count for encumbrance unless you've got 9 of
them, in which case they count as a Pocket-sized object. Ammunition and
powder for your guns, arrows for your crossbows and bows, and other
types of ammo don't ever count; they're included with the weapon itself
(especially as they're not tracked in *The Queen's Cavaliers*).

Other supplies (art supplies, blackpowder supplies, clockwork gears,
fabric, foodstuffs) count as one Pocket-size object for every three
units you carry. So if you're carrying, say, 10 units of clockwork
gears, that counts as three Pocket-size objects, or 1 Handheld object.
Two or fewer units of these supplies don't count for encumbrance
purposes.

(subchapter) Living Expenses

Characters in *The Queen's Cavaliers* are assumed to have their housing
and daily nutritional needs met by their Social Rank scores without
having to make Wealth rolls or spend Rewards for normal daily living.
Only unusual expenses, such as a night on the town or an inn stay in a
distant city, need to be paid for separately.

The costs below are fairly standardized across Gallinea, although it's
only the larger towns and cities that have the best food, inns, and
alcohol. As a package, one night's stay for a character and her horse in
an inn with an attached tavern will cost 4D0 for the cheapest room and
food, 3D6+1D0 for good quality, and 3D8+1D0 for the most exquisite food,
drink, and suite.

Characters who go carousing and buy rounds on the house can use the
price of the most expensive alcohol bought as an Item die on their
Streetwise (Carouse) rolls.

(table) Living Expenses

Service RequestedCost

Drinks for one night, good1D6

Drinks for one night, private reserve1D8

Drinks for one night, watered down1D0

Lodging for one night, cheap1D0

Lodging for one night, good1D6

Lodging for one night, sumptuous1D8

Lodging for one week, cheap1D6

Lodging for one week, good1D8

Lodging for one week, sumptuous1D10

Meals for one day, bland1D0

Meals for one day, good1D6

Meals for one day, gourmet1D8

Round on the house, good1D8

Round on the house, private reserve1D10

Round on the house, watered down1D6

Stabling for one night1D0

Stabling for one week1D6

Drinks, good: 

Drinks, private reserve: 

Drinks, watered down: 

Lodging, cheap: 

Lodging, good: 

Lodging, sumptuous: 

Meals, bland: 

Meals, good: 

Meals, gourmet: 

Round on the house: 

Stabling: 

\#\#

(subchapter) Miscellaneous Gear

\#\#

(subchapter) Transportation and Animals

\#\#

Each Gallinean league is equal to approximately 2 miles. An average
person on foot can walk 1 to 2 leagues per hour.

(section) Vehicles

\#\#

(table) Vehicles

VehicleCostWalk SpeedRun SpeedOverland Speed

Airship4D12--3 Areas10 leagues per hour

Carriage1D81 Area2 Areas3 leagues per hour

Gondola2D61 Area2 Areas2 leagues per hour

Narrowboat2D8--1 Area1 league per hour

River Barge1D8--1 Area1 league per hour

Rowboat1D61 Area2 Areas2 leagues per hour

Sailing Ship2D12--2 Areas6 leagues per hour

Velocipede1D81 Area3 Areas3 leagues per hour

Wagon1D61 Area2 Areas3 leagues per hour

Cart1D01 Area2 Areas3 leagues per hour

Airship: W = Actual speed will vary depending on wind and weather
conditions.

Carriage: C = Carriage and wagon speed is limited by the speed of the
horses, and is reduced if going off of roads.

Gondola: river

Narrowboat: river

River Barge: river

Rowboat: river

Sailing Ship: W = Actual speed will vary depending on wind and weather
conditions.

Velocipede: C

Wagon: C = Carriage and wagon speed is limited by the speed of the
horses, and is reduced if going off of roads.

(section) Mounts

\#\#

(table) Mounts

MountCostWalk SpeedRun SpeedOverland SpeedItem Die

Draft Horse1D61 Area2 Areas2 LphHusbandry +1D6

Riding Horse1D82 Areas3 Areas6 LphCavalry +1D8

Warhorse1D101 Areas3 Areas4 LphCavalry +1D10

Draft Horse: \#\#

Riding Horse: \#\#

Warhorse: \#\#

(sidebar) Horse Accessories

\#\#

ItemCostItem Die

\#\#

(sidebar end)

(section) Pets and Farm Animals

\#\#

(table) Pets and Farm Animals

AnimalCostExample

Beast of burden1D6Ox, mule

Bird, messenger 1D6Homing pigeon

Bird, song1D0Canary, dove

Cat, common1D0Housecat, alley cat

Cat, purebred1D6Beryllian, Serican longhair

Dog, companion1D6 Elaran toy spaniel

Dog, guard1D6Dogue de Boussole

Dog, herding1D6Corderan sheepdog

Dog, hunting1D6Lowlands basset, Gallinean caniche

Dog, mongrel1D0Small, ordinary mutt

Fowl, barnyard 1D0Chicken, goose

Livestock, dairy1D6Cow, goat

Livestock, meat1D6Pig, sheep

Livestock, wool1D6Sheep, goat

Raptor, trained1D8Falcon

Raptor, untrained1D6Owl, crow

Reptile, small1D0Snake, box turtle

Rodent1D0Mouse, rat

Rabbit1D0Bunny, hare

Beast of Burden (Domesticated): These are strong animals used for
pulling plows, pulling wagons, and other farming chores. They have an
Item Die of Husbandry +1D6 when used for this purpose. 

Bird, Messenger (Domesticated): Messenger birds are trained to return 

Bird, Song: \#\#

Cat, Common: \#\#

Cat, Purebred: \#\#

Dog, Companion (Domesticated): \#\#

Dog, Guard (Domesticated): \#\#

Dog, Herding (Domesticated): \#\#

Dog, Mongrel (Domesticated): \#\#

Fowl, Barnyard: \#\#

Livestock, Dairy: \#\#

Livestock, Meat: \#\#

Livestock, Wool: \#\#

Raptor, Trained (Domesticated): \#\#

Raptor, Untrained: \#\#

Reptile: \#\#

Rodents and Rabbits: \#\#
