(subchapter) Clothing

"Clothes make the woman," or so the old Lutetian maxim claims. Certainly
this is true in Gallinea's capital city as well as the rest of Elara;
fashion is a tangible thing in Gallinea.

Charmweaving, which originated in Lutetia, is the practice of adding
specific dyes, trinkets, threads, and other magickal enhancements to
articles of clothing. These enhancements provide bonuses to specific
tasks. For more details, see charmwoven attire in Chapter 9, "Specialty
Equipment."

(section) Clothing Qualities

Articles of clothing have the following qualities:

**Worn On: **Each article of clothing is designed to be worn on a
specific part of your body -- head, shoulders, torso, hands, legs, or
feet. In general, you can wear only one item per location, although you
may be able to stack multiple cloaks on your shoulders under certain
circumstances -- check with your MJ to be sure.

Items worn on the legs can't have charms woven into them. (See chapter
9, "Specialty Equipment.")

**Social Rank: **Some items are associated with certain social ranks.
This doesn't restrict what you can wear, regardless of your own social
rank, but it may affect how you and your outfit are seen by others. The
social rank of an article of clothing can be used as an availability die
in a purchase roll.

**Scale: **Articles of clothing are usually handheld scale when carried,
and don't contribute to encumbrance when worn if the optional system for
encumbrance is used. Items wrapped up in a box for gifting or transport
are one scale category higher, including the packaging.

The following table lists the most common types of clothes that are
found in Gallinea. Detailed descriptions of each type of clothing are
given in Chapter 9.

(table) Articles of Clothing

ItemCostWorn OnSocial Rank

Beret, artisan's1D0HeadArtisan (1D8)

Bodice, fine1D6TorsoNoble (1D10)

Bodice, common1D0TorsoCommoner (1D0)

Boots, military1D6FeetSoldier (1D6)

Boots, work1D6FeetCommoner (1D0)

Breeches1D6LegsCommoner (1D0)

Cape, cloth1D0ShouldersSoldier (1D6)

Cape, fur1D8ShouldersArtisan (1D8)

Capotain1D0HeadMilitary (1D6)

Casaque1D6TorsoSoldier (1D6)

Cavalier hat1D6HeadMilitary (1D6)

Chopines1D6FeetNoble (1D10)

Cloak1D0ShouldersCommoner (1D0)

Doublet, common1D6TorsoCommoner (1D0)

Doublet, fine1D0TorsoNoble (1D10)

Gloves, courtier's1D6HandsNoble (1D10)

Gloves, craftsman's1D0HandsArtisan (1D8)

Gloves, farmer's1D0HandsCommoner (1D0)

Gloves, soldier's1D0HandsSoldier (1D6)

Goggles, gearspring1D6HeadArtisan (1D8)

Gown, courtly1D10TorsoNoble (1D10)

Gown, surgeon's1D6TorsoArtisan (1D8)

Hair ribbons1D0HeadNoble (1D10)

Hose1D0LegsNoble (1D10)

Masque1D0HeadNoble (1D10)

Pantaloons1D6LegsMilitary (1D6)

Pantofles1D0FeetArtisan (1D8)

Petticoat1D6LegsNoble (1D10)

Plague mask1D6HeadArtisan (1D8)

Poulaines1D0FeetMilitary (1D6)

Robes1D0TorsoCommoner (1D0)

Sandals1D0FeetCommoner (1D0)

Shift1D0TorsoCommoner (1D0)

Shoes, buckled1D0FeetCommoner (1D0)

Skirt1D6LegsCommon (1D0)

Skullcap, clerical1D0HeadArtisan (1D8)

Smock1D0TorsoCommoner (1D0)

Stockings1D0LegsCommoner (1D0)

Stole, liturgical1D0ShouldersArtisan (1D8)

Stole, ornate1D8ShouldersNoble (1D10)

Tabard1D6ShouldersSoldier (1D6)

Tricorne1D6HeadMilitary (1D6)

Vestments1D6TorsoArtisan (1D8)

(section) Standard outfits

Many outfits just naturally go together. Every new character starts with
one or two standard outfits depending on her class and backstory. In
addition to sharing a common cost, outfits are all considered part of
the same social rank, regardless of the actual social rank of each item.

(table) outfits

ItemCostIncludes

Clockworker outfit2D6Gearspring goggles, smock, breeches, craftsman's
gloves, pantofles

Corsair outfit4D6Tricorne, doublet, soldier's gloves, pantaloons, boots

Courtly outfit3D6Hair ribbons, bodice, courtier's gloves, skirt,
chopines

Crafter outfit2D6Artisan's beret, smock, breeches, craftsman's gloves,
buckled shoes

Military outfit2D6Capotain, soldier's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard

Peasant outfit1D6Shift, breeches, buckled shoes

Physician outfit3D6Plague mask, surgeon's gown, breeches, pantofles

Priest outfit2D6Clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier's gloves,
breeches, pantofles

Scholar's outfit1D6+1D8Ornate stole, robes, breeches, poulaines

Swashbuckler outfit4D6Cavalier hat, doublet, soldier's gloves, breeches,
boots, cloth cape

**Clockworker outfit (Artisan 1D8):** This is worn while doing
mechanician work, and usually has a lot of extraneous pockets and loops
for tools and gears. The most notable feature is the set of gearspring
goggles, which give an item die bonus of Perceive +1D6 on visual checks.

**Corsair outfit (Soldier 1D6):** Worn by sailors and pirates around the
world, and by many would-be buccaneers, this outfit certainly captures
the look of the chic privateer.

**Courtly outfit (Noble 1D10): **Nobles, and those who must interact
with them, are known for their outlandishly ornate couture and finely
arranged coiffure.

**Crafter outfit (Artisan 1D8):** Similar to a clockworker outfit, a
crafter outfit is for doing productive work, be it artistic, magickal,
or smithing in content.

**Military outfit (Soldier 1D6):** Military outfits come with an
appropriate tabard from the correct military unit, noble house,
mercenary group, or city guard. For example, a veteran/constable may
have one tabard from the Gallinean army, and another from the Lutetia
watch. Military outfits don't come with a torso item, to facilitate the
wearing of armor.

**Peasant outfit (Commoner 1D0): **Plain and practical, peasant outfits
can be found throughout Gallinea, and in nearly every social rank. As
they're easily patched, many peasant outfits are simply stitched
together from different types and colors of fabric. Lately, the upper
social ranks have tried to adopt this patchwork style, albeit with
little success.

**Physician outfit (Artisan 1D8): **The notable feature of this outfit
is the large, vaguely bird-shaped mask used during surgery; the beak of
this mask contains herbs and cloth meant to filter out diseases. Most
physician outfits start out white in color, but quickly become stained
with crimson.

**Priest outfit (Artisan 1D8): **The traditional dress of Asrian clergy
varies by their rank within the church. Lower-ranking chaplains wear
outfits of brighter, primary colors while those higher in the hierarchy
are allowed additional colors that are darker and more complex. 

**Scholar's outfit (Artisan 1D8):** Students and instructors at
universities, seminaries, officer schools, and other institutions of
higher learning are expected to dress in traditional scholarly robes
while teaching or attending classes. Outside of class, of course,
they're free to wear whatever they want.

**Swashbuckler outfit (Soldier 1D6):** The cavalier hat, the billowing
cape, the high boots -- anyone wearing this outfit cuts a dashing figure
indeed. While some such outfits are more sedate and refined, many look
as if the wearer stepped out of the latest Alais Neversette novella.

(subchapter) Charmwoven Attire

\#\#

(section) The Nine Laws of Fashion

Charmwoven clothes are useful, stylish, and expensive, but they are also
made according to exacting standards known as Gallinea's Nine Laws of
Fashion. Flouting these laws could lead to your Charms simply failing to
work at all\!

While these are known as "Gallinea's" Laws, that's not because they're
enforced by the Queen's decree or by some sort of "fashion police" that
stalks the streets of Lutetia. Instead, these are akin to natural Laws
that were first noticed and codified in Gallinea; they simply describe
how things are rather than how they should be.

The First is the simplest Law:

(subsection) The First Law: The Law of Couture

"One's clothes must fit properly."

It seems obvious at first -- clothing is meant to be worn and to fit
properly\! But it's also the most important. If your clothes aren't
sized correctly for you, none of the charms will function. In addition,
each off-size article of clothing you wear adds a Drop 1 penalty to
combat actions if it's too large or too small.

To ensure your clothes are properly sized, you can't just buy your
clothes off the rack; the people of Gallinea are a diverse group when it
comes to body size, and there are no "standard sizes". Your clothes will
need to be either be created specifically for you, or altered by a
tailor. Only then can charms be effectively added to such apparel.

(subsection) The Second Law: The Law of Attunement

"Charms are unique to the wearer."

You can't just pick up any random charmwoven item and put it on, even if
it fits you. The patterns, glyphs, and trinkets sewn into charmwoven
clothing have to be calibrated for each wearers. This is a pretty simple
process -- as long as the charmweaver knows your birth date, birth time,
and place of birth. It usually takes about an hour to attune or reattune
charms to any given person.

What if you don't know some or any of that information to tell your
charmweaver? There are two options.

First, your charmweaver can attempt to adjust the charms to you anyway,
through trial and error. This takes one hour per piece of information
about your birth that you're missing. At the end of that process, the
charmweaver makes a simple Magicks (Weave) roll with the opposition pool
based on how much they don't know, as shown on the following table.

(table) Opposition Pool for Charm Attunement Rolls

DieBirth DateBirth TimePlace of Birth

D0Exact dateTime, to the minuteCity or village of birth

D6Year and month knownTime, to the hourProvince of birth

D8Month knownMorning or NightCountry of birth

D10Year known--Continent of birth

D12Nothing knownNothing knownNothing known

The dice pool is based on all of these factors -- so if you know the
exact date of your birth, that you know you were born in the morning,
and that you were born somewhere in Talania, that's an opposition pool
of 1D0+1D8+1D8, or 2D8. As it's a simple check, the charmweaver needs
just one success point to correctly attune the item. On a failed check,
the charmweaver needs to start over again to attune the item.

The second option involves the use of Magicks (Portents), and for this
reason many charmweavers either work with those who can read omens, or
can do so themselves. 

The opposition pool for the Portents roll is the same as the pool
calculated above for the trial-and-error method using the Magicks
(Weave) specialty, but this is a standard roll not a simple roll. It
takes one minute to perform this type of reading, the portent-reader
must see you the entire time, and you must be willing to have it done.
Each success point spent reveals either your birth date, your birth time
to the minute, or your city or village of birth.

(subsection) The Third Law: The Law of Pertinence

"The charm must correspond to the article."

Simply stated, this means that a charm can only be applied to an item
that has some relationship to the type of enchantment desired.

For example, gloves for soldiers can be given charms that assist with
Dueling or Military (Aim), while gloves for craftsmen can be charmed for
Magicks, Medicine, or Science.

Pertinent skills for any given type of clothing are found later in this
chapter, in the "Articles of Clothing" section. The "Creating Charmwoven
Clothing" section, also found in this chapter, summarizes which types of
charms can be applied to which pieces of attire.

(subsection) The Fourth Law: The Law of Dissonance

"Dissonance limits the effectiveness of charms."

(table) Dissonance

Dissonance LevelMaximum Charm Die

0No limits

11D12

21D10

31D8

41D6

51D0

6 or moreNone

\#\#

(subsection) The Fifth Law: The Law of Cacophony

"Unrestrained use of color creates dissonance."

\#\#

(table) Dissonance Generated by Cacophony

Additional ColorsDissonance

1+0

2+2

3+3

4+4

5+5

6 or more+6

(subsection) The Sixth Law: The Law of Neutrality

"Neutral colors do not generate dissonance."

\#\# 

(subsection) The Seventh Law: The Law of Darning

"Rips, tears, and holes produce dissonance."

\#\#

(table) Dissonance Generated by Damage

Unrepaired RipsDissonance

0+0

1+0

2+2

3+3

4+4

5+5

6 or more+6

\#\#

(subsection) The Eighth Law: The Law of Station

"Outfits of mismatched attire produce dissonance."

Mismatched refers to the social rank associated with each item.
Predefined outfits automatically count as a single rank.

(table) Dissonance Generated by Social Rank Mismatch

Step of MismatchDissonance

0+0

1+0

2+2

3+3

4+4

5+5

6 or more+6

\#\#

(subsection) The Ninth Law: The Law of *Dernier Cri*

"Dated fashions generate dissonance."

\#\#

This only applies to items or outfits of social rank 1D10.

\#\#

(table) Dissonance Generated by Dated Fashions

YearsDissonance

0+0

1+0

2+2

3+3

4+4

5+5

6 or older+6

(subsection) Wearing Charmwoven Clothing

\#\#

(subsection) Wearing Mundane Clothing

\#\#

(section) Articles of Clothing

\#\#

(subsection) Arm Apparel

\#\#

(table) Arm Apparel

ItemCostSocial RankPertinent Skills

Gloves, Courtier's1D6D10Culture, Interaction, Streetwise

Gloves, Craftsman's1D0D8Magicks, Medicine, Science

Gloves, Soldier's1D0D6Defense, Dueling, Military

Gloves, Farmer's1D0D0Nature, Streetwise

(subsection) Torso Apparel

\#\#

(table) Torso Apparel

ItemCostSocial RankPertinent Skills

Bodice, Common1D0D0Interaction, Nature, Streetwise

Bodice, Fine1D6D10Defense, Dueling, Interaction

Casaque1D6D6Culture, Defense, Dueling, Military

Doublet, Fine1D6D10Defense, Dueling, Interaction

Doublet, Common1D0D0Defense, Interaction, Streetwise

Gown, Courtly1D10D10Culture, Interaction, Observation

Gown, Surgeon's1D6D8Interaction, Medicine, Observation

Robes1D0D0Culture, Interaction, Magicks, Observation

Shift1D0D0Magicks, Nature, Streetwise

Smock1D0D8Culture, Magicks, Science

Vestments1D6D8Culture, Interaction, Magicks, Observation

(subsection) Foot Apparel

\#\#

(table) Foot Apparel

ItemCostSocial RankPertinent Skills

Boots, Military1D6D6Defense, Military, Nature

Boots, Work1D6D0Military, Nature, Streetwise

Chopines1D6D10Culture, Interaction

Pantofles1D0D8Culture, Defense

Poulaines1D0D6Culture, Interaction, Military

Sandals1D0D0Nature, Streetwise

Shoes, Buckled1D0D0Culture, Nature, Streetwise

(subsection) Head Apparel

Gallineans wear many different kinds of hats, with a type of headwear
available to every type of charm -- all the skills, with the exception
of Initiative. The types of hats available are shown in the following
table.

(table) Head Apparel

ItemCostSocial RankPertinent Skills

Beret, Artisan's1D0D8Culture, Magicks, Science

Capotain1D0D6Military, Nature, Streetwise

Cavalier Hat1D6D6Defense, Dueling, Streetwise

Goggles, Gearspring1D6D8Military, Observation, Science

Hair Ribbons1D0D10Culture, Interaction, Magicks

Masque1D0D10Dueling, Interaction, Streetwise

Plague Mask1D6D8Medicine, Observation, Science

Skullcap, Clerical1D0D8Culture, Interaction, Observation

Tricorne1D6D6Military, Nature, Streetwise

**Beret, Artisan's:** The simple woolen beret is common among crafters
in Gallinea. You can get a beret in many different colors, although
beret colors have extra significance within Lutetian society. Each craft
guild claims ownership of a particular, exacting shade of blue, green,
or red, and will object strenuously to anyone unaffiliated wearing
"their" colors. To those outside of the Lutetian guilds, the
distinctions between beret colors is almost entirely opaque.

**Capotain:** A capotain is a tall hat, usually flat on the top, with a
narrow brim. It originated in Albia and has since spread to Gallinea,
usually worn by the soldiery. Most capotains are black in color, and
many sport buckles in front -- although Albian purists claim that such a
frivolity is inauthentic and typical of Gallinea's love of decoration
for its own sake. 

**Cavalier Hat:** Made famous by the Queen's cavaliers but worn
throughout Gallinea, cavalier hats have a wide brim and are usually worn
with one side pinned up. A dyed ostrich feather is often added, both for
appearance's sake and to allow all-black hats to take a charm. Sometimes
these hats are colloquially referred to as neversettes.

**Goggles, Gearspring: **These goggles are created and used by
mechanicians as well as other crafters. Each set of goggles has two or
more pairs of lenses that can be swapped in as necessary -- functions
include magnification of small objects, telescopic sighting of distant
objects, filters for specific colors, or simple eye protection.
Gearspring goggles offer a +1D6 Item Die on Observation (Perception)
rolls.

**Hair Ribbons:** Magickally charmed hair ribbons are popular with the
upper classes and are woven into the hairstyles -- or wigs -- of any
gender of noble. Unless affixed to a wig (which must be one of the
neutral colors of argent, brunâtre, cendree, or sable), the ribbons
require anywhere from ten minutes to several hours to weave into hair,
or double that time if forced to don them without the help of a capable
household servant.

**Masque:** Not a bandanna clumsily worn by a common brigand to disguise
her identity, a masque actually does little to hide one's appearance.
Used by the nobility at their lavish parties, each is custom created to
reflect the wearer's persona and opinions of herself. Many masques only
encircle the eyes and the space between them, while others cover the
entire face. A Gallinean holiday called the Festival of Masques
celebrates freedoms, including sexual freedoms, and is a time when
nobles and non-nobles alike don masques to participate in the revelry.

**Plague Mask:** Part of a chirurgeon's standard surgical wear, a plague
mask is usually styled like a bird's long beak, although other examples
exist, such as long tusks or simply a cylinder. Goggles built into the
mask provide covering for the chirurgeon's eyes, while medicinal herbs
and complex filters in the "nose" cavity prevent infection of
air-carried diseases.

**Skullcap, Clerical:** Sometimes called calottes, these skullcaps are
associated with the Asrian religion and worn by its chaplains.
Lower-ranking priests of Eserre wear celeste, azure, vert, or brunâtre
skullcaps, while those higher in the order cover their skulls with
calottes of argent, carnation, or purpure. Only those clergy appointed
as Guardians of the Faith are allowed to wear Or skullcaps, with the
golden yellow color symbolizing their connection to the sun goddess. Lay
workers within the church are free to wear sable or cendree calottes
while performing church duties.

**Tricorne: **These felt hats have wide brims like cavalier hats, but
are pinned up on the sides and backs, forming them into triangular
shapes. In Gallinea and Albia it's traditional to wear the tricorne with
the single point facing forward, and in Ekalia and Dragosa to wear it
pointing back. Tricornes are most popular among sailors and members of
the military, with officers using them to display medals and other
symbols of rank.

(subsection) Shoulder Apparel

Shoulder charms tend to be about skills that are flashy and
attention-getting, although a few have use in disguising or hiding the
wearer.

(table) Shoulder Apparel

ItemCostSocial RankPertinent Skills

Cape, Cloth1D0D6Defense, Dueling, Interaction, Streetwise

Cape, Fur1D8D8Culture, Dueling, Interaction, Magicks

Cloak1D0D0Defense, Dueling, Magicks, Nature, Streetwise

Stole, Liturgical1D0D8Culture, Interaction, Magicks

Stole, Ornate1D8D10Culture, Interaction, Streetwise

Tabard1D6D6Defense, Dueling, Interaction, Military

(section) Standard Outfits

\#\#

(table) standard Outfits

ItemCostSocial RankIncludes

Clockworker Outfit2D6D8Gearspring goggles, smock, breeches, craftsman's
gloves, pantofles

Corsair Outfit4D6D6Tricorne, doublet, soldier's gloves, pantaloons,
boots

Courtly Outfit3D6D10Hair ribbons, bodice, courtier's gloves, skirt,
chopines

Crafter Outfit2D6D8Artisan's beret, smock, breeches, craftsman's gloves,
buckled shoes

Military Outfit2D6D6Capotain, soldier's gloves, breeches, boots, tabard

Peasant Outfit1D6D0Shift, breeches, buckled shoes

Physician Outfit3D6D8Plague mask, surgeon's gown, breeches, pantofles

Priest Outfit2D6D8Clerical skullcap, vestments, courtier's gloves,
breeches, pantofles

Swashbuckler Outfit4D6D6Cavalier hat, doublet, soldier's gloves,
breeches, boots, cape

(section) Creating Charmwoven Clothing

\#\#

(subsection) Pertinence

\#\#

(subsubsection) Culture

\#\#

(table) Culture Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmCourtier's gloves

TorsoCasaque, courtly gown, robes, smock, vestments

FootChopines, pantofles, poulaines, buckled shoes

HeadArtisan's beret, hair ribbons, clerical skullcap

ShoulderFur cape, liturgical stole, ornate stole

(subsubsection) Defense

\#\#

(table) Defense Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmSoldier's gloves

TorsoBodice, casaque, doublet

FootMilitary boots, pantofles

HeadCavalier hat

ShoulderCloth cape, cloak, tabard

(subsubsection) Dueling

\#\#

(table) Dueling Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmSoldier's gloves

TorsoBodice, casaque, doublet

Foot--

HeadCavalier hat, masque

ShoulderCloth cape, fur cape, cloak, tabard

(subsubsection) Initiative

\#\#

(table) Initiative Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

Arm--

Torso--

Foot--

Head--

Shoulder--

(subsubsection) Interaction

\#\#

(table) Interaction Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmCourtier's gloves

TorsoBodice, doublet, courtly gown, surgeon's gown, robes, vestments

FootChopines, poulaines

HeadHair ribbons, masque, clerical skullcap

ShoulderCloth cape, fur cape, liturgical stole, ornate stole, tabard

(subsubsection) Magicks

\#\#

(table) Magicks Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmCraftsman's gloves

TorsoRobes, smock, vestments

Foot--

HeadArtisan's beret, hair ribbons

ShoulderFur cape, liturgical stole

(subsubsection) Medicine

\#\#

(table) Medicine Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmCraftsman's gloves

TorsoSurgeon's gown

Foot--

HeadPlague mask

Shoulder--

(subsubsection) Military

\#\#

(table) Military Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmSoldier's gloves

TorsoCasaque

FootMilitary boots, poutaines

HeadCapotain, gearspring goggles, tricorne

ShoulderTabard

(subsubsection) Nature

\#\#

(table) Nature Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmFarmer's gloves

TorsoShift

FootMilitary boots, sandals, buckled shoes

HeadCapotain, tricorne

ShoulderCloak

(subsubsection) Observation

\#\#

(table) Observation Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

Arm--

TorsoCourtly gown, surgeon's gown, robes, vestments

Foot--

HeadGearspring goggles, plague mask, clerical skullcap

Shoulder--

(subsubsection) Science

\#\#

(table) Science Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmCraftsman's gloves

TorsoSmock

Foot--

HeadArtisan's beret, gearspring goggles, plague mask

Shoulder--

(subsubsection) Streetwise

Articles that can take streetwise charms are a varied set, ranging from
the peasant's cloth cape to the noble's ornate stole.

(table) Streetwise Pertinence

CategoryPertinent Articles of Clothing

ArmCourtier's gloves

TorsoBodice, doublet, shift

FootSandals, buckled shoes

HeadCapotain, cavalier hat, masque, tricorne

ShoulderCloth cape, cloak, ornate stole

(subsection) Colors

\#\#

(table) Neutral Colors

Neutral Colors

ColorDescription

ArgentSilver or white

BrunâtreBrown

CendréeGrey

SableBlack

(table) Verve Colors

Verve Colors

Argent (only)Silver or white

AzureBlue

GulesRed

OrYellow

(table) Affinity Colors

Affinity ColorsDescription

AmaranthMagenta

Bleu-CélesteSky blue

Brunâtre (only)Brown

CarnationPink

Cendrée (only)Grey

VertGreen

(table) Guile Colors

Guile Colors

PurpurePurple

Sable (only)Black

SanguineDark red

TennéOrange

\#\#

**Amaranth:** This is a violet-red color, close to a magenta. It is an
Affinity color.

**Argent:** Argent is both the color white and the color silver. When
used in combination, it's considered a neutral color; used by itself,
it's a Verve color.

**Azure:** A medium shade of blue, azure is a Verve color.

**Bleu-Céleste:** The light blue shade of a clear sky, bleu-céleste is
not as dark as azure.

**Brunâtre:** Brown, or brunâtre, is an Affinity color. If used in
combination with another color, it's considered a neutral color.

**Carnation:** An Affinity color, carnation is a softer pink color,
often a lighter shade of Amaranth.

**Cendrée:** Named for the dark grey of cinders, cendrée is an Affinity
color when used by itself, or a neutral color when used in combination
with another color.

**Gules:** Gules, a medium shade of red, is a Verve color.

***Or*****:** *Or* represents yellow or gold. It is a Verve color.

**Purpure:** This is a dark purple color and is a Guile color.

**Sable:** Items that are entirely black are considered sable, a Guile
color. If combined with another color, then the black becomes a neutral
color.

**Sanguine:** Dark red, the color of blood, is a Guile color.

**Tenné:** This is a dark shade of orange, and is a Guile color.

**Vert:** The color of forest vegetation, vert is an Affinity color.

(table) Charmweaving Colors

Color NameDescriptionAttribute

AmaranthViolet redAffinity

ArgentWhite or silverVerve (or Neutral)

AzureBlueVerve

BrunâtreDark brownGuile (or Neutral)

CarnationPinkAffinity

CelesteLight blueAffinity

CendreeGrayGuile (or Neutral)

GulesRedVerve

MurreyBurgundyAffinity

OrGold or yellowVerve

PurpurePurpleGuile

SableBlackGuile (or Neutral)

SanguineDark redGuile

TennéOrange or tanAffinity

VertGreenAffinity

Clockworks

Version 0.10.01, 7 May 2016

Clockwork Devices

Each device consists of the following:

• 1 Casing

• 1 or more Power Sources

• 1 or more Components

Gear Space: Each casing has a certain amount of gear space available,
depending upon its size. The power source and the components use up that
space once installed. A miniaturization component can be installed in a
casing to increase its effective gear space.

Power: Each power source delivers a set amount of power, dependent on
the type of power source and the method of producing that power. Each
component consumes a specified amount of power, and the power source's
output must be enough to cover the power used by the components. Power
is measured in power units.

Complexity: The complexity of a device is equal to the number of power
sources plus the number of components.

Constructing a Device

There are five steps to creating a device:

1\. Plan the Device

2\. Purchase the Supplies

3\. Build the Parts

4\. Install the Parts

5\. Complete the Device

Plan the Device

Before you start, you should plan out what you want your device to do.
Decide how large the device will be – the size of its casing. Determine
what capabilities it will have by the components you choose to install,
and make sure that you have a strong enough power source to provide
power to those components.

Once you have the device planned out, you can spend four hours to make a
Science (Calculus) roll to draft a set of plans for building the device.
This is optional, but is highly recommended as it gives you an
additional die to roll when installing parts in your device and
completing it. 

The difficulty of the Science (Calculus) roll to draw plans is
determined by the complexity of the device you are designing, as shown
on the table below. 

Device Complexity

Standard Opposition

2

Easy (3D6)

3 – 4

Moderate (3D8)

5 – 8

Hard (3D10)

9+

Very Difficult (3D12)

If you earn at least two success points on the Science (Calculus) roll,
you have successfully drawn plans that will give you (or anyone else who
follows them) a D6 bonus on rolls to install and complete the device.
For each additional two success points you spend, you can increase the
size of that die up to a maximum limited by your ranks in Science
(Calculus), as shown below.

Calculus Ranks

Maximum Die

\+1

D6

\+2

D8

\+3

D10

\+4

D12

\+5

D12

Prototype: If you have an existing prototype for the device, either
created by yourself or by someone else, you gain a bonus D6 die on the
roll to draw plans. The prototype does not need to be currently
functional for you to gain this bonus.

Purchase the Supplies

There are three ways to acquire the parts needed for constructing a
device: build them yourself, buy them from another clockworker, or
salvage the parts from another device.

If you are going to build your own parts, you will need to buy gear
supplies. Make a Wealth roll against the cost and availability of gear
supplies – D8 for the cost, and D6 availability unless you are in a
large city (in which case the availability is D0). Each success point on
the Wealth roll enables you to buy one unit of gear supplies since they
are a bulk item.

If you are going to buy certain parts, you will also make a Wealth roll
based on the cost of the part (casing, power source, or component) that
you wish to purchase. The cost for each is listed in the descriptions of
each part later in this chapter. A casing has an availability of D0,
while power sources and components have an availability equal to the
highest die of their costs.

For details on salvaging parts and supplies, see the later section on
Salvage.

Build the Parts

You can save money by building your own casing, although this does
consume more time. A roll is not necessary, although you must have
competency in the Science (Clockworks) specialty to construct a usable
casing. See the later section on Constructing a Power Source for more
information.

Building a power source or a component requires a number of gear
supplies as shown on the table for that part, and at least four hours'
work. At the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll and for
each success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point's worth
of gear supplies to create components or power sources. Multiple rolls
may be required to create all the parts needed for a complex device.

Skill Limit: The total number of gears that you can spend on a single
part is limited to your number of specialty ranks in Science
(Clockworks). 

Standard Opposition: The difficulty for this roll is Easy (3D6) if you
are in a workshop, or Hard (3D10) if you are not.

Tools: If you have clockworker's tools, you gain an item die (usually
D6) on this roll. If you are in a workshop, you gain a D8 item bonus
instead.

Plans: The plans for the overall device do not apply on this roll.

Prototype: You gain no bonus for having a prototype of the device when
making this roll.

Install the Parts

Installing a power source or component in a casing requires a Science
(Clockworks) roll (or series of rolls). The difficulty is Easy (3D6) if
you are in a workshop, or Hard (3D10) if you are not. Each roll takes
four hours, and each success point installs one power source or
component.

Tools: If you have clockworker's tools, you gain an item die (usually
D6) on this roll. If you are in a workshop, you gain a D8 item bonus
instead.

Plans: If you have plans for the device, you gain a bonus die based on
the quality of the plans when making this roll.

Prototype: If you have a prototype of the device, you gain a bonus D6
die on this roll. The prototype does not need to be currently functional
for you to gain this bonus.

Complete the Device

Once all the components have been successfully installed, the device
needs to be completed. This requires no roll, but does require one hour
of work per point of complexity of the device. 

Casings

Casings are measured by their physical size, which determines the amount
of gear space within the casing.

Purchasing a Casing: Casings are either purchased at the cost shown
below or constructed by the clockworker for no cost. The availability of
a casing is always D0. Gear supplies cannot be spent on casing costs.

Creating a Casing: It takes one hour per point of Gear Space to create a
casing. No skill roll is required, but the clockworker must have at
least one rank in the Clockworks specialty.

Casing Notation: A casing is described by listing the size of the casing
followed by the gear space of that casing in parentheses. Examples:
pocket (space 1), person (space 8), building (space 64).

Casing Size

Cost

Gear Space

Pocket

D0

1

Handheld

D0

2

Portable

D6

4

Person

D6

8

Carriage

D8

16

Room

D10

32

Building

D12

64

Pocket Size

A pocket-sized device is easily concealed, requires only one hand to
operate, and can be carried within a pocket or beneath clothing.
Examples include pocketwatches and wrist holsters.

Handheld Size

A handheld device requires usually requires one hand to operate and can
be carried on a belt, in a holster, or in a scabbard. Examples include
clockwork pistols and gearswords.

Portable Size

A portable device is one which requires two hands to carry and operate,
or perhaps can be carried as a backpack. Most don't need to be
self-mobile. Examples include clockwork muskets and wing-gliders.

Person Size

An object roughly the size of a person – such as a statue – can't be
easily carried by a single person without requiring her full attention.
Most are therefore either stationary devices or self-mobile. Examples
include humanoid automata and velocipedes.

Carriage Size

Larger than a human but smaller than a room, carriage-sized devices are
on the scale of large pieces of furniture. Unless self-mobile, they
require several people in order to transport. Examples include clockwork
carriages and some industrial machines.

Room Size

Room-sized devices take up the entire space of a sizable room, and are
therefore rarely portable unless self-mobile. Examples include some
analytical engines and most watermills.

Building Size

Devices the size of a building are usually as large as a two or three
story building with a half-dozen rooms. Examples include airships and
clock towers.

Power Sources

Power sources are rated by how much space they take up inside a casing,
by how much power they can provide, and by how that power is activated
to enable components.

Purchasing a Power Source: A power source can be purchased,
pre-assembled, for the cost shown on the table for that power source.
The availability is equal to the highest cost die of the power source.

Constructing a Power Source: Unless otherwise specified, a power source
can be constructed by a clockworker. This requires a number of gear
supplies as shown on the table for that power source, and at least four
hours' work. At the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll
and for each success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point's
worth of gear supplies.

Skill Limit: The total number of gears that a clockworker can spend on a
single power source is limited to her number of specialty ranks in
Science (Clockworks). For example, a clockworker with Science
(Clockworks) +3 can only spend 3 gears on creating a mainspring power
source.

Note: There are a few power sources that cannot be constructed using the
Clockworks specialty. This will be noted in the description of the power
source along with information about the required skill for construction.
The roll is otherwise treated like the Clockworks specialty roll.

Power Source Notation: A power source is described by listing the name
of the power source followed by the space, power supply, other qualities
of the power source, and the duration. Examples: gear train (space 1,
power supply 2, Drop 1, one action); mainspring (space 4, power supply
4, wind 1 minute, duration 10 minutes); tension trigger (space 1, power
supply 2, reset Drop 2, one use). 

Alchemical Capacitor

An alchemical capacitor is a simple jar device that is used to generate,
capture, and store electrical energy through alchemical means. A crude
electromechanical interface allows the energy of the capacitor to be
released and used over an extended period of time.

Each alchemical capacitor functions for 24 hours before needing to be
replaced and reinstalled in a device. The power supply's duration is the
same if it is used once during that time period or used repeatedly.

Creating an Alchemical Capacitor: The Magicks (Brew) specialty is
required to create an alchemical capacitor, and it requires the use of
alchemical supplies to do so. The maximum number of alchemical supplies
that can be spent to create an alchemical capacitor is equal to the
brewer's ranks in Magicks (Brew).

Space

Cost (Alchemical Supplies)

Power Supplied

Duration

2

D6 (1)

1

24 Hours

4

D8 (2)

2

24 Hours

8

D10 (3)

3

24 Hours

16

D12 (4)

4

24 Hours

Gear Train

A gear train is used to transmit mechanical energy to a device as part
of the same action that uses the device; this mechanical energy is
supplied by the muscular activity of the device's user. This activity is
a combined action that imposes a Drop 4 to Drop 0 penalty on that
action. The power thus supplied is only good for that specific action.

For example, a velocipede might have a Drop1 penalty required to provide
3 units of power, which can then be used to power the carry and movement
components of the velocipede. This imposes that Drop 1 penalty on
actions undertaken by the rider of the velocipede during the turn in
which it's ridden.

Variable Gear Train: The power units and the drop penalty of any given
gear train are usually fixed, as shown on the table below. A gear train
(space 0, power supply 2, Drop 2) will always supply 2 power units and
require a Drop 2 penalty to operate. However, a gear train can be made
variable by increasing the space by 1 and the cost by D6 (1 gear); this
allows variable power supply based on the amount of Drop penalty taken
to power it. For example, a variable gear train (space 0+1, power supply
1/2/3, Drop 1/2/4) supplies 1 power unit if a Drop 1 penalty is applied,
2 power units for a Drop 2 penalty, and 3 power units for a Drop 4
penalty.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power Supplied

Drop

Duration

0

D0 (0)

1

Drop 1

One Action

0

D0 (0)

2

Drop 2

One Action

0

D0 (0)

3

Drop 4

One Action

1

D6 (1)

1

Drop 0

One Action

1

D6 (1)

2

Drop 1

One Action

1

D6 (1)

3

Drop 2

One Action

1

D6 (1)

4

Drop 4

One Action

2

D8 (2)

2

Drop 0

One Action

2

D8 (2)

3

Drop 1

One Action

2

D8 (2)

4

Drop 2

One Action

4

D10 (3)

3

Drop 0

One Action

4

D10 (3)

4

Drop 1

One Action

8

D12 (4)

4

Drop 0

One Action

Blackpowder Flintlock

A blackpowder flintlock is a kind of trigger that fires off once, using
exploding blackpowder to provide energy to power the device's
components. After the blackpowder flintlock is triggered, it must be
reloaded with blackpowder and reset – a procedure which takes an amount
of time as shown on the table below.

Creating a Blackpowder Flintlock: The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is
required to create a blackpowder flintlock, and it requires the use of
clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can
be spent to create a blackpowder flintlock is equal to the
powderworker's ranks in Science (Blackpowder).

Space

Cost

Power Supplied

Reset

Duration

1

D0 (0)

2

Drop 1

One use

1

D6 (1)

4

Drop 2

One use

2

D8 (2)

6

Drop 4

One use

3

D10 (3)

8

2 Turns

One use

4

D12 (4)

10

3 Turns

One use

Mainspring

A mainspring is a complex clockwork spring used to store power until it
needs to be released. The initial power is put into the mainspring by
winding it and then is released by a mechanical flywheel.

The capabilities of a mainspring are measured in both how much power is
provided and how that power is stored and released; each factor is
purchased separately as shown on the tables below. To design a
mainspring, you need to determine both the power output and the duration
separately, paying the cost (in wealth rolls or gear supplies) for each.

A mainspring can't be wound for more than 10 minutes; at that point, the
mainspring is holding the full amount of power that it is able to store
and release.

One Turn Winding/One Use per Success Point Duration: If the winding time
is one turn and the duration is one use per success point, make a
Science (Clockworks) check against Easy (3D6) standard difficulty. Each
success point grants one use of the device before the end of the scene.

Variable Mainspring: The winding time and duration any given mainspring
are usually fixed, as shown on the table below. A mainspring (space 1,
power supply 1, wind 1 minute, duration 10 minutes) will always require
1 minute of winding and provide 10 minutes of power. However, a
mainspring can be made variable by increasing the space by 1 and the
cost by D6 (1 gear); this allows variable duration based on the amount
of time spent winding it. For example, a variable mainspring (space 1+1,
power supply 1, wind 1 turn/1 minute/10 minutes, duration 1 minute/10
minutes/1 hour) supplies power for 1 minute if wound for 1 turn, 10
minutes if wound for 1 minute, and 1 hour if wound for 10 minutes.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power Supplied

1

D0 (0)

1

2

D6 (1)

2

4

D8 (2)

4

8

D10 (3)

6

16

D12 (4)

8

Space

Cost (Gears)

Wind

Duration

\+0

D0 (0)

1 Turn

One use per success point

\+0

Do (0)

1 minute

1 minute

\+0

D0 (0)

10 minutes

10 minutes

\+0

D6 (1)

1 Turn

1 minute

\+0

D6 (1)

1 minute

10 minutes

\+0

D6 (1)

10 minutes

1 hour

\+0

D8 (2)

1 Turn

10 minutes

\+0

D8 (2)

1 minute

1 hour

\+0

D8 (2)

10 minutes

24 hours

\+0

D10 (3)

1 minute

24 hours

Naturalistic Turbine

A naturalistic turbine is one that is hooked up to a source of power
that exists in the natural world – running water, winds, or tidal flow.
Naturalistic turbines produce a steady but low amount of power, without
requiring any special actions or fuel to make them function. Setting up
a naturalistic turbine to use any given natural energy supply requires
one hour per power unit produced, so most are installed in permanent
locations such as windmills or watermills.

Natural Limits: A stream can produce up to 2 power units, while larger
rivers can supply up to 4. Wind power varies between 0 and 3 power units
in most situations. Tidal flow usually only can provide 1 power unit.

Sails: A sail takes up half the space of a normal naturalistic turbine,
but the power supplied can only be used for movement. It also requires
the purchase of one unit of fabric supplies per power unit.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power Supplied

2

D6 (1)

1

4

D8 (2)

2

6

D10 (3)

3

8

D12 (4)

4

Phlogistone Furnace

A phlogistone furnace burns the rare mineral phlogistone to use for
generating lift and propulsion. It is primarily used in airships and can
be prohibitively expensive for other uses.

Limited Power: Power units produced by a phlogistone furnace can only be
used to power carry and movement components.

Envelope: A charmwoven cloth envelope is necessary for use with a
phlogistone furnace; this requires the skills of a charmweaver with at
least 4 specialty ranks in Magicks (Weave).

Fuel: Each hour that a phlogistone furnace is in use, it burns one pound
of phlogistone per power unit supplied. The amount of power supplied can
be reduced by burning lesser quantities of phlogistone.

Creating a Phlogistone Furnace: The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is
required to create a phlogistone furnace, and it requires the use of
clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can
be spent to create a phlogistone furnace is equal to the powderworker's
ranks in Science (Blackpowder).

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power Supplied

Envelope Cost (Fabric)

4

D12 (4)

10 (carry or movement only)

D10 (4)

6

2D12 (5)

20 (carry or movement only)

D12 (5)

Tension Trigger

A tension trigger stores energy for use and then releases it. To reset a
tension trigger, you need to take a reset action, which is a combined
action with a penalty of Drop 1 to Drop 4. Unlike gear trains, tension
triggers store energy for future use rather than immediate use, but
unlike mainsprings a tension trigger will only store that energy for a
single use.

Space

Cost

Power Supplied

Reset

Duration

0

D0 (0)

1

Drop 4

One use

0

D6 (1)

1

Drop 2

One use

0

D6 (1)

2

Drop 1

One use

1

D8 (2)

1

Drop 1

One use

1

D8 (2)

2

Drop 2

One use

1

D8 (2)

3

Drop 4

One use

1

D10 (3)

2

Drop 1

One use

1

D10 (3)

3

Drop 2

One use

1

D12 (4)

3

Drop 1

One use

Components

Components provide the basic functionality of a clockwork device, and
are rated by how much space they take up inside a casing, by how much
power require to run, and by the effects the component can produce.

Purchasing a Component: A component can be purchased, pre-assembled, for
the cost shown on the table for that component type. The availability is
equal to the highest cost die of the component.

Constructing a Component: Unless otherwise specified, a component can be
constructed by a clockworker. This requires a number of gear supplies as
shown on the table for that component, and at least four hours' work. At
the end of that time, make a Science (Clockworks) roll and for each
success point, the clockworker can spend 1 Creation Point's worth of
gear supplies to construct components or power sources.

Skill Limit: The total number of gears that a clockworker can spend on a
component is limited to her number of specialty ranks in Science
(Clockworks). For example, a clockworker with +3 Science (Clockworks)
can only spend 3 gears on creating a movement component.

Component Notation: A power source is described by listing the name of
the power source followed by the space, power requirements, and other
qualities of the component. Examples: articulation (space 1, power 0,
Drop 1); carry (space 2, power 1, person); projectile weapon (space 3,
power 1, weapon die d8, close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 0, long
Drop 2).

Armor

Armor plating protects both the device itself and anyone using or within
the device. The armor component grants an Armor Die that can be used for
Defense (Block) rolls.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Armor Die

0

D0 (0)

0

D0

1

D6 (1)

0

D6

2

D8 (2)

0

D8

4

D10 (3)

0

D10

8

D12 (4)

0

D12

Articulation

Clockwork devices are inherently clumsy; if used as replacements for a
human's natural ability, they take a Drop 4 penalty on associated
actions. This is primarily the case when someone replaces part of her
body with a clockwork limb, such as an arm or a leg. The articulation
component reduces those penalties from Drop 4 down to Drop 2, Drop 1 or
Drop 0.

Creating an Articulation Component: The Medicine (Surgery) specialty is
required to create an articulation component with a low Drop penalty.
Surgery +1 is required for Drop 1, and Surgery +2 for Drop 0.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Penalty

0

D0 (0)

0

Drop 4

1

D0 (0)

0

Drop 2

2

D0 (0)

0

Drop 1

0

D6 (1)

0

Drop 2

1

D6 (1)

0

Drop 1

2

D6 (1)

0

Drop 0

0

D8 (2)

0

Drop 1

1

D8 (2)

0

Drop 0

0

D10 (3)

0

Drop 0

Calculation

The calculation component gives the device the ability to compute
certain values when given appropriate information. The simplest form of
calculation is simple timekeeping; nearly any clockwork device can be
made to function as a clock.

More advanced calculations can compute the calendar date (including holy
days and stellar phenomenon), plot out a navigation course, do complex
polynomial math such as ballistics, or even do relatively complex
analytical analysis.

Unless the device has the measurement component, it is reliant upon user
input for all appropriate information, such as the longitude and
latitude, the weather conditions, and so on. Faulty data can lead to
faulty calculations.

Creating a Calculation Component: The Science (Calculus) specialty is
required to create a calculation component and it requires the use of
clockwork gears to do so. The maximum number of clockwork gears that can
be spent to create a calculation component is equal to the creator's
ranks in Science (Calculus).

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Calculation Complexity

0

D0 (0)

1

Timekeeping

1

D6 (1)

1

Calendar

2

D8 (2)

1

Navigation

4

D10 (3)

1

Polynomials

8

D12 (4)

1

Analytics

Carry

The carry component gives a device the ability to lift additional
weight. Most devices with the movement component have enough carrying
capacity to lift themselves, including a normal load; some have even
greater capacity depending on their use.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Carrying Capacity

0

D0 (0)

1

Pocket

0

D0 (0)

1

Handheld

1

D6 (1)

1

Portable

2

D6 (1)

1

Person

4

D8 (2)

2

Carriage

8

D10 (3)

4

Room

16

D12 (4)

8

Building

Delay Timer

A delay timer prevents a power source from providing power to a device
until a fixed amount of time has passed. To use the delay trigger
component, first it must be armed and the length of delay set. The delay
durations shown are not randomly determined but are set by the user,
although each with a set range has a minimum of one time unit.

Delay timers are most frequently used with blackpowder flintlock or
tension trigger power sources, and often trigger projectile weapon traps
or bombs.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Arm

Delay Duration

1

D0 (0)

0

Drop 2

End of current action

1

D6 (1)

0

1 Turn

1-10 Turns

1

D8 (2)

0

1 Turn

1-10 Minutes

1

D10 (3)

0

1 minute

1-8 Hours

1

D12 (4)

0

1 minute

1-6 Days

Efficiency

The efficiency component reduces the time necessary to do a simple,
repetitive task. For combined actions, this reduces the Drop penalty by
1, 2 or 4 – but with a minimum of Drop 1. For other repetitive tasks
this reduces the time needed to complete those tasks, through mechanical
automation. For example, a mechanized loom could cut in half the time
needed to produce simple cloth.

An efficiency component cannot reduce the time of complex tasks that
involve specialty rolls, such as charmweaving or surgery.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Drop Reduction

Time Reduction

1

D0 (0)

1

Reduce Drop by 1

Reduce Time by 10%

2

D6 (1)

1

Reduce Drop by 2

Reduce Time by 25%

4

D8 (2)

1

Reduce Drop by 4

Reduce Time by 50%

8

D10 (3)

2

Reduce Time by 75%

16

D12 (4)

4

Reduce Time by 90%

Explosion

This component produces a loud and potentially deadly explosion. It's
used in creating bombs or grenades.

Power Requirement: An explosion component can only be powered by a
blackpowder flintlock or an alchemical capacitor. Note that blackpowder
flintlocks are a lot more effective at powering an explosion than an
alchemical capacitor.

Environmental Damage: An explosion does damage to everything inside a
given area. More powerful explosions also do damage in adjacent areas,
and even targets up to 2 areas away for the most powerful explosions.
This environmental damage inflicts one yield for one success point, and
one wound for three success points.

Self-Destruction: Upon use, the device is destroyed by the force of its
own explosion.

Creating an Explosion Component: The Science (Blackpowder) specialty is
required to create an explosion component and it requires the use of
blackpowder supplies to do so. The maximum number of blackpowder
supplies that can be spent to create an explosion component is equal to
the powderworker's ranks in Science (Blackpowder).

Space

Cost (Powder)

Power

Environmental Damage (1 area, 2 areas)

1

D0 (1)

2

3D6

1

D6 (2)

4

3D8

2

D8 (3)

6

3D10 (3D6)

4

D10 (4)

8

3D12 (3D8)

8

D12 (5)

10

5D12 (3D10, 3D6)

Hand-to-Hand Weapon

The Hand-to-Hand Weapon component gives a device the ability to be used
as a weapon by granting it a Weapon Die, and assigning it a Weapon
Prowess category. Choose one option from each of the following tables to
define a complete Hand-to-Hand Weapon.

Size Limit: A device with the hand-to-hand weapon component can be no
larger than Portable size.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Weapon Die

1

D0 (0)

0

D6

2

D0 (0)

0

D8

4

D6 (1)

0

D10

8

D8 (2)

0

D12

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Casing Size

Weapon Prowess

Max Weapon Die

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Pocket

Knife

1D6

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Handheld

Knife

1D8

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Handheld

Sword

1D10

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Handheld

Cudgel

1D10

\+1

D0 (0)

\+0

Portable

Sword

1D12

\+2

D0 (0)

\+0

Portable

Cudgel

1D12

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Portable

Pike

1D12

Injector

The injector component gives a device the ability to inject a fluid,
such as an alchemical solution or a vial of poison, into a living
creature. A device can hold only one dose and it takes a Drop 4 action
to refill the device.

Using the device in a combat situation requires a Medicine (Poisons)
roll to deliver its payload.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

1

D6 (1)

1

1

D8 (2)

0

Item Die

The item die component allows you to add an Item Die for one specialty
to a device. For example, a spyglass could provide an Item Die on
Observation (Perceive) rolls, or a tricked-out screwdriver could provide
an Item Die on Science (Clockwork) rolls.

To provide a bonus to more than one specialty, add another Item Die
component for each additional specialty.

Defense (Parry), Dueling: Use the Hand-to-Hand Weapon component to add a
melee Weapon Die to a device.

Defense (Block): Use the Armor component to add an Armor Die to a
device.

Initiative: These specialties can never benefit from an Item Die.

Military (Aim): Use the Projectile Weapon component to add a ranged
Weapon Die to a device.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Item Die

1

D0 (0)

0

D6

2

D6 (1)

0

D8

4

D8 (2)

1

D10

8

D10 (3)

2

D12

Magazine

A magazine component holds multiple shots of ammunition (bullets and
powder or quarrels, for example) for a device with the projectile weapon
component. The amount held in each magazine, and the time required to
reload the device with a full magazine, are shown in the table below.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Shots

Reload

1

D0 (0)

0

2

Drop 4

1

D6 (1)

0

4

Drop 4

2

D8 (2)

0

8

2 Turns

4

D10 (3)

0

16

3 Turns

8

D12 (4)

0

32

4 Turns

Measurement

The measurement component allows a device to take a reading of the
physical environment around it. By default, this is displayed on the
device in some way. Examples of qualities that can be measured include
the temperature, barometric pressure, altitude, longitude and latitude,
velocity, oceanic depth, compass directions, sound levels, and more. A
worn device could measure the wearer's speed, heart rate, or blood
pressure.

A measurement component is often tied to a calculation component to
allow the device to process the information that it measures.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Qualities Measured

1

D0 (0)

1

1

1

D6 (1)

0

1

1

D6 (1)

1

2

1

D8 (2)

0

2

1

D8 (2)

2

4

2

D10 (3)

0

4

2

D10 (3)

2

8

4

D12 (4)

0

8

4

D12 (4)

4

16

Miniaturization

The miniaturization component doesn't actually add any capabilities to a
device, but it makes it easier to fit more into the casing of the
device. The component makes space in the device by reducing the size of
existing components; this is reflected by additional gear space that is
added to that of the casing.

Unique Component: A device can have only one miniaturization component.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Additional Gear Space

0

D0 (0)

0

\+1

0

D6 (1)

0

\+2

0

D8 (2)

0

\+4

0

D10 (3)

0

\+6

0

D12 (4)

0

\+8

Movement

The movement component gives the device the ability to move itself.

Carry Component Required: A device with a movement component must have a
carry component of at least the same size as the device's casing.

Roll: The device moves at half speed when not on a road or other flat
surface.

Climb: The device can move up and down vertically.

Step. The device can walk like a human or animal.

Glide: The device must maintain at least Walk speed in order to stay
aloft.

Float: The device is a boat or ship and can travel on the surface of the
water.

Submerge: In addition to being able to float on the surface of the
water, the device can go beneath the waves like a submersible. 

Fly: The device can fly through the air. Unless it is powered by a
Phlogistone Furnace, the device must maintain a minimum of Walk speed in
order to stay aloft.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Walk

Run

Overland Speed

1

D0 (0)

0

0 Areas

1 Area

1 league per hour

1

D6 (1)

1

1 Area

2 Areas

3 leagues per hour

2

D8 (2)

2

1 Area

3 Areas

6 leagues per hour

4

D10 (3)

3

1 Area

4 Areas

10 leagues per hour

8

D12 (4)

4

1 Area

5 Areas

15 leagues per hour

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Movement Mode

Maximum Speed

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Roll

3 Areas

\+1

D0 (0)

\+0

Step

3 Areas

\+1

D6 (1)

\+0

Climb

2 Areas

\+2

D0 (0)

\-1

Glide

3 Areas

\+2

D0 (0) 

\+1

Float

4 Areas

\+4

D6 (1)

\+2

Submerge

3 Areas

\+8

D6 (1)

\+3

Fly

5 Areas

Powered Weapon

A powered weapon is a melee weapon that has been modified with moving
parts to make it even more deadly – for example, a rotating flail or a
chain-toothed sword. The powered weapon component grants a bonus die
that can be used whenever the device's Weapon Die is used, including
Defense (Parry) rolls and Dueling rolls.

Size Limit: A device with the powered weapon component can be no larger
than Portable size.

Requires Hand-to-Hand Weapon: You can only add this component to a
device if it already possesses the hand-to-hand weapon component. The
powered weapon Bonus Die cannot exceed the Weapon Die of the device.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Bonus Die

1

D6 (1)

1

D6

1

D8 (2)

1

D8

2

D10 (3)

2

D10

4

D12 (4)

3

D12

Projectile Weapon

A projectile weapon component fires a bullet, dart, arrow, quarrel,
cannonball, or other projectile at a target. Most devices use the
Military (Aim) specialty to attack, and gain a Weapon Die when doing so.
As with other missile weapons in The Queen's Cavaliers, it's not
necessary to track ammunition carried, but it is necessary to know
whether or not the weapon is loaded.

In addition to selecting the Weapon Die, reload time, and range
modifiers for the weapon, the designer also specifies which Weapon
prowess is used with the weapon. Devices which require the Cannon weapon
prowess use the Science (Blackpowder) specialty for attacks instead of
Military (Aim). 

Magazine: A projectile weapon can optionally be fitted with a magazine
component to increase the number of times it can be fired without
reloading. In such a situation, the projectile weapon component loses
its reload quality and uses the reload time of the magazine instead.

Size Limit: A device with the projectile weapon component can be no
larger than Carriage size. (For cannons on larger buildings or ships,
just place the cannons as separate devices.)

Ranges: The range of a projectile weapon component is determined by
adding together a composite of all chosen range lines. Lines cannot be
combined if they both contain a value for the same range. All ranges
must be filled in with a Drop penalty or N/A.

The default ranges for a weapon with no extra space, cost, or power
requirements are: close Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 1, long N/A.

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Weapon Die

Reload

1

D0 (0)

1

D6

Drop 1

1

D6 (1)

1

D8

Drop 1

2

D8 (2)

1

D10

Drop 2

4

D10 (3)

2

D12

Drop 4

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Close (0)

Short (1-2)

Medium (3-4)

Long (5+)

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Drop 0

N/A

\+1

D0 (0)

\+0

Drop 0

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Drop 0

\+1

D0 (0)

\+0

Drop 0

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Drop 1

\+0

Do (0)

\+0

Drop 2

N/A

\+2

D0 (0)

\+1

N/A

Drop 1

Drop 0

\+0

D0 (0)

\+1

N/A

Drop 1

\+0

D6 (1)

\+1

Drop 1

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Drop 2

Space

Cost (Gears)

Power

Casing Size

Max Weapon Die

Skill Prowess

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Pocket

Pistol +1D6

Pistol

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Handheld

Pistol +1D8

Pistol

\+0

D6 (1)

\+0

Handheld

Bow +1D8

Crossbow

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Portable

Bow +1D10

Crossbow

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Portable

Musket +1D10

Musket

\+0

D6 (1)

\+0

Portable

Cannon +1D10

Cannon

\+0

D6 (1)

\+0

Person

Bow +1D12

Crossbow

\+0

D6 (1)

\+0

Person

Musket +1D12

Musket

\+0

D6 (1)

\+0

Person

Cannon +1D12

Cannon

\+0

D0 (0)

\+0

Carriage

Cannon +1D12

Cannon

\+0

D6 (1)

\+0

Carriage

Crossbow +1D12

Crossbow

Sample Devices

Design Note: I haven't yet rechecked all of these yet, so some of them
might be added up incorrectly or may be using earlier versions of some
of the components. 

Autoloader (pistol, musket)

Casing Size: Pocket (gear space 1)

Power Source: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)

Components: Efficiency (space 1, power 1, reduce Drop by 1),
Miniaturization (gear space +1)

Construction Cost: D6 (1)

List Cost: D6 (1)

Complexity: 3

An autoloader can be attached to a pistol or a musket to speed up the
reloading of the gun.

Autoloader (cannon)

Casing Size: Portable (gear space 4)

Power Source: Gear Train (space 0, power supply 1, Drop 1)

Components: Efficiency (space 4, power 1, reduce reload time by 50%)

Construction Cost:

List Cost:

Complexity: 2

An autoloader attached to a cannon reduces the reload time from 4 rounds
to 2 rounds.

Climbing Gears

Casing Size: Portable (space 4)

Power Source: Mainspring (space 2, power supply 2, wind 1 turn, duration
one use per success point)

Components: Movement (space 2, power 1, walk, climb), Carry (space 2,
power 1, person), Miniaturization (space +2)

Construction Cost: D8 (2)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 4

Climbing gears are worn as a harness and operated with two hands,
allowing you to move between areas which are normally not passable.

Clockbow

Casing Size: Portable (space 4)

Power Source: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, drop 0)

Components: Projectile Weapon (space 3, power 1, weapon die d8, close
Drop 0, short Drop 0, medium Drop 0, long Drop 2), Magazine (space 1, 4
shots, power 0, reload Drop 4), Miniaturization (space +1)

Construction Cost: 4D6 (3)

List Cost: D10 (3)

Complexity: 4

A clockbow is a clockwork crossbow, fitted with a magazine that holds
four quarrels that can be fired before reloading.

Clockwork Carriage

Casing Size: Carriage (space 16)

Power Source: Mainspring (space 4, power supply 4, wind 10 minutes,
duration 1 hour)

Components: Movement (space 2, power 2, gallop, roll), Carry (space 4,
power 2, carriage)

Construction Cost: 3D10 (9)

Complexity: 3

Clockwork Limb (arm)

Casing Size: Handheld (space 2)

Power Source: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)

Components: Carry (space 0, power 1, hand), Articulation (space 0, power
0, Drop 1), Armor (space 1, power 0, Armor Die d6)

Construction Cost: D12 (4)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 4

Clockwork Limb (leg)

Casing Size: Portable (space 4)

Power Source: Gear Train (space 1, power supply 1, Drop 0)

Components: Carry (space 2 power 1, person), Articulation (space 0,
power 0, Drop 1), Armor (space 1, power 0, Armor Die d6) 

Construction Cost: 

List Cost: 

Complexity: 4

Clockwork Pistol

Casing Size: Handheld (space 2)

Power Source: Tension Trigger (space 1, power supply 1, reset Drop 1)

Components: Projectile Weapon (space 1, power 1, range 2 areas, damage
D6, reload Drop 1)

Construction Cost: 

List Cost: 

Complexity: 2

Clockwork Musket

Casing Size: Handheld (space 2)

Power Source: Tension Trigger (space 1, power supply 1, reset Drop 1)

Components: Projectile (space 1, power 1, range 2 areas, damage D6,
reload Drop 1)

Construction Cost: D8 (2 or 4)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 2

Gearsword

Casing Size: Handheld (space 2)

Power Source: Mainspring (space 1, power supply 1, wind 1 turn, duration
+ uses)

Components: Hand-to-Hand Weapon (space 2, power 0, weapon die D8),
Powered Melee Attack (space 1, power 1, bonus weapon die D6),
Miniaturization (space +2)

Construction Cost: D10 (3)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 

Great Gearsword

Casing Size: Portable (space 2)

Power Source: Mainspring (space 2, power supply 2, wind 1 turn, duration
+ uses)

Components: Melee Attack (space 4, power 0, weapon die D10), Powered
Melee Attack (space 2, power 2, bonus weapon die D10), Miniaturization
(space +4)

Construction Cost: (7)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 

Pocketwatch

Casing Size: Pocket (space 1)

Power Source: Mainspring (space 1, power supply 1, wind 10 minutes,
duration 24 hours)

Components: Calculation (space 0, power 1, timekeeping)

Construction Cost: D8 (2)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 2

Wing-Glider

Casing Size: Portable (space 4)

Power Source: Gear Train (space 1, power 2, usage Drop 1, duration 1
Action)

Components: Carry (space 2, power 1, person), Movement (space 3, power
1, speed run, gliding)

Construction Cost: D12 (4)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 3

Wrist Holster

Casing Size: Pocket (space 1)

Power Source: Tension Trigger (space 0, power supply 1, reset Drop 2,
duration 1 use)

Components: Efficiency (space 1, power 1, reduce Drop by 1)

Construction Cost: D6 (1)

List Cost: 

Complexity: 2

Airship

Casing Size: Building (space 64)

Power Sources: Mainspring (space 8, power supply 6, wind 10 minutes,
duration 24 hours), Phlogistone Furnace (space 8, power supply 10,
movement and carry only), Gear Train x4 (space 1, power 5, Drop 4)

Components: Movement (space 16, power 7, cruise, fly), Carry (space 16,
power 8, building), Armor (space 8, power 0, Armor Die D12), Calculation
(space 2, power 1, navigation)

Construction Cost: 

List Cost: 4d12

Complexity: 10

Design Note: This airship definitely needs to be recalculated. 

(section) Repairing and Salvaging Clockwork Devices
