:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: toolbox :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:# New Style Maneuvers

As the MJ, you can create new Style Maneuvers that can be chosen by your players.

**Reroll maneuvers** cost one Style Point and allow for one broad type
of roll to be rerolled. For example, you could create a maneuver that
allows a reroll on Wealth rolls, attack rolls with a rapier, or rolls
that use one of the character's passions.

**Maximize maneuvers** cost two Style Points and allow one specific kind
of die to be maximized. Any given pool can only have one maximized die.
Examples of appropriate maneuvers include maximizing the Mount die of a
mount or a specific weapon die, such as a pistol. Don't make the
maneuver too specific; that's what conditional maneuvers are for.

**Conditional maneuvers** cost one Style Point and let the character add
dice from one specialty to another roll, but only under certain
conditions. The conditions you choose should be fairly specific and not
overly broad, but they should also be something that a determined player
could use at least once per game session, if not more often.

**Initiative maneuvers** don't exist, period. There aren't any Charms or
Style Maneuvers that add to Initiative rolls. You probably shouldn't
invent any, either; that limitation is there for a reason. You can,
however, create conditional maneuvers that add Initiative specialties to
other dice rolls.

Finally, you need to decide which classes, nationalities, or other
groups have access to the new maneuver. Perhaps it's a lost sword
technique only taught to students of a retired blademaster, or it's
commonly practiced by adult members of a house of the Ifran desert. It's
possible you might decide that no groups can freely choose your new
maneuver, in which case players will need to pay the additional XP cost
when choosing it.

Players, you don't have the option to create your own Style Maneuvers
whenever you want -- but you can always suggest one to your MJ and maybe
she'll like the idea!
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
