## Gallinean Holidays

#### Asrian Holy Days

The sixth day of every month is the first Sun Day of that month, and is
when most Asrian holy days celebrate the sun goddess Eserre. Devout
Gallineans are expected to attend church on those days, even if they
don't manage to make it to services on any other Sun Day in a month.

6 Nivôse is celebrated as Winter's Dawn, and is considered the official
start of the winter season. Services in the Asrian churches ask for the
blessings of the Goddess-Empress Eserre upon the faithful, and ask for a
gentle winter.

The winter solstice occurs on 6 Pluviôse, marking the midpoint of winter
and the time in which Eserre's sun is out for the least amount of time.
Gallineans mark this date, and the two days around it, with the Winter's
Noon Festival – a time to come together and share warmth, food, and
stories, in addition to religious services.

The 6th of Ventôse is the third holy day of winter in the Asrian faith,
and is known as Winter's Dusk. Heading out of the coldest part of the
year toward the spring thaw, the Chaplains of Eserre ask for a
prosperous growing season. Tradition says that if a sun jay sees its
shadow at noon on Winter's Dusk, winter weather will continue into
Germinal, the next month. The Chaplains in Lutetia raise sun jays
specifically for this purpose.

Spring's Dawn, on 6 Germinal, is a day of thanks for the end of winter
and start of spring, with churches and worshipers alike decorated with
flowers. The 6th of Floréal is Spring's Noon, the vernal equinox, and is
marked by outdoor festivals and dances around spring poles. Spring's
Dusk on 6 Prairial is holy day of peace, when even the most brutal of
Elara's armies will refrain from war.

Confirmation Day, 18 Prairial, commemorates the mythological wedding of
Eserre to her beloved Safira, the first Bride of the Sun. On this day
each year, young teenagers publicly present themselves as faithful
followers of the Sun Goddess and are henceforth considered as adults by
the Church.

On 6 Messidor, Summer's Dawn, the Asrian high holy months officially
begin, lasting until Summer's Dusk, 6 Fructidor. The legends of Eserre
and the Qartan Empire are read or re-enacted over the course of eight
consecutive Sun Days, save for 6 Fervidor, the holiest day of the year.
On that longest day of the year, and the days before and after it, known
as Summer's Noon, the most lavish celebrations are held under the midday
sun. The most non-pious Gallineans will make a point to attend these
midsummer services, even if they will never enter a church or cathedral
the rest of the year.

The fall holy days of Autumn's Dawn (6 Vendémiaire), Autumn's Noon (6
Brumaire), and Autumn's Dusk (6 Frimaire) are quieter affairs, devoted
to teaching, sermons, and service as the year winds down, the crops are
harvested, and the worshipers of the Sun Goddess prepare for winter.

#### New Moon Festivals

In addition to Asrian religious holy days, Gallineans also celebrate
ancient traditions associated with the Old Faith of the witches. These
folk holidays occur on new moons, in the evening when the sky is dark.
Most involve sharing of gifts and meals with family and close friends.

The New Hunger Moon, 16 Nivôse, is a time for giving food to those in
need in the chill of winter. 16 Pluviôse, the New Wolf Moon, is marked
by the exchange of furs and warm clothing. New Snow Moon, on 16 Ventôse,
is a celebration marked by wine and other types of alcohol that have
been saved in the snow all winter.

The New Sap Moon, on 16 Germinal, celebrates the start of spring with
traditional meals of maple syrups served on crêpes. 16 Floréal is the
New Rain Moon, and gifts of boots and jackets are common as the spring
rains begin. On 16 Prairial, the New Wishing Moon is celebrated with
exchanges of lucky trinkets and wishes kept in secret.

The 16th of Messidor, the New Berry Moon, marks the beginning of summer
with sweet pies, tarts, and pastries. The New Kissing Moon, on 16
Fervidor, is a night for lovers to spend in each others' arms under the
stars, and is said to be the reason that there are more births than
normal in Floréal nine months later. The final folk celebration of the
summer, New Peddler's Moon, is celebrated through the exchange of
hand-made gifts given as part of a mock barter system.

The first of the fall festivals, the New Harvest Moon on 16 Vendémiaire,
is a night of bonfires, music, and dancing. The New Huntress Moon, 16
Brumaire, is marked by large dinners of game meats such as venison,
rabbit, or pheasant. On the night of 16 Frimaire, the New Mourning Moon,
Gallineans remember their dead friends and relatives, especially those
who have passed within the last year, through guising or mumming.

#### Devran Holy Days

The Devrans have their own holy days when the moon is a crescent in the
sky. The 13th of each month is known as Last Crescent, and the 19th of
each month is the First Crescent. Ceremonies are held on both nights,
and many Devrans fast nightly during the week between the two holy days.

#### National Holidays

Gallinea's national holidays are secular in nature and recognize
important events in the history of the queendom.

Treaty Day, also known as Betrothal Day, is the anniversary of the
signing of the Treaty of Scanbreille on 21 Nivôse 1241 – ending the war
between Albia and Gallinea through the later marriage of Prince Carolus
to Princess Mariana, the future Queen Mariana II. The 16th day of
Floréal, also called Espousal Day, is the anniversary of the wedding of
Carolus and Mariana in 1242.

Scanbrian Unification Day, 15 Pluviôse, commemorates the date in 989
when Scanbria became unified with Gallinea. Scanbrians also celebrate 30
Fructidor, Scanbrian Independence Day, which marks the date in 986 when
Scanbria declared its independence from Varendia. Many older Scanbrian
families still resent that the Grand Duchy of Scanbria lasted for only
three years before being annexed by the Gallineans, and the day is
usually one for political agitation. Needless to say, Scanbrian
Independence Day is not celebrated in the rest of Gallinea.

Victory Day, on 7 Prairial, marks the defeat of Varendia in 1123 by
future princess-consort Clarisse Sudelune, also known as La Dame de la
Victoire. The day is celebrated by military parades along the Rue du
Couer, both in Lutetia and elsewhere in Gallinea.

The Festival of Masques is held on 24 Prairial every year, and is an
annual celebration of freedom in Lutetia centered around lavish
masquerade balls, street parties, and excessive drinking. Anyone caught
outside of their home without a disguise is "arrested" and taken to the
nearest constable, who forces them to wear a cheap and embarrassing
costume. The Festival of Masques is also a time for much intrigue and
illicit affairs, as no one is whom they seem to be.

One of the largest civic holidays is the birthday of the queen. As the
current queen, Mariana's birth is celebrated every 19 Fructidor. The
birthday of her mother, the late Queen Elisse II, used to be celebrated
on 21 Floréal but is no longer an official holiday. Some members of the
nobility, who strongly opposed Elisse's policies when she lived,
celebrate only her birthday to insult the current queen.

The deaths of Queen Elisse and her daughter, crown princess Jehanne, are
remembered by solemn ceremonies on 22 Frimaire, as they have been every
year since that dark day in 1243.

30 Nivôse and 1 Pluviôse, the end of one year and the start of the next,
are secular holidays celebrated as Year's Dusk and Year's Dawn. These
are usually quiet days of reflection on the events of the previous
twelve months and a time to make plans for the upcoming year.

### Gender, Sexuality, and Race

In general, Gallinea is a diverse nation, full of people of all genders,
sexualities, and races. While that mostly holds true upon closer
examination, the Land of the Ascendant Pegasus does still retain some
inequalities based on old traditions and biases.

#### Gender

Gallinean custom has long held the primacy of women within society --
after all, the traditionalists argue, it is women who maintain the
stability of culture. The identity of one's other parent may be in
doubt, but there's never a question about who gave birth to a child.
Thus, inheritance passes along matrilineal lines and thus concentrating
wealth and societal power among women.

This rule still holds true for most nobles -- and continues to be an
expectation of the Royalty -- but has lost popularity among those in the
lower social classes. 

Queen Delphine, great-grandmother of current queen Mariana, decreed in
1172 PQ that inheritance within Gallinea would pass to the oldest child
regardless of gender -- and as much as this pleased the commoners, it
enraged the nobility to the same extent. Two years later, in 1174 PQ,
she rescinded that decree and replaced it with a rule that each family
could designate either the oldest daughter or oldest son as inheritor.
Most nobles stuck to the old ways, however, and named daughters as
heirs.

Delphine's granddaughter, Queen Elisse III, expanded the decree in 1240
to allow any child to be named as an heir, regardless of birth order or
gender, as part of her Elissian Reforms. After Elisse's assassination,
her husband (as prince-regent) and her daughter Queen Mariana maintained
the Reforms enacted by Elisse before her death, but haven't yet enacted
the further reforms desired by the late queen.

Besides inheritance, other forms of gender discrimination have likewise
been banned since Delphine's reign, but most positions of authority and
responsibility within Gallinean higher society are still held by women.

Traditional Asrian theology holds that the First Prohibition, "Let no
man be superior to a woman," defines a role for a woman as the head of a
family, head of a country, and head of a business, but modern
interpretations over the last millennium have taken this to be a call
for gender-neutrality and lack of gender-based oppression.

The Asrian Church has thus become a bastion of gender equality, although
with persistent trappings of matriarchy -- Eserre is viewed as a sun
goddess as opposed to a gender-neutral deity, for example. The Church is
headed by the Bride of the Sun and her Handmaidens, which are ceremonial
positions that are treated as female for liturgical purposes, regardless
of the gender of the occupant of the office. 

Within Gallinean politics, the Church takes a middle line between the
beliefs of the Monarchy and the nobility, not quite willing to fully
endorse the Elissian Reforms but nonetheless prompting for greater
equality of gender within Asrian culture.

With the increased acceptance of gender equality has also come greater
acceptance of those who don't fall into a binary gender assigned to them
at birth. Gender roles have become understood as a question of
self-identification, including people who exist outside of a strict
binary as well as those who are comfortable within it.

Female and male identities are considered legitimate regardless of birth
assignment. Legal recognition of gender is not required for all but
those in the higher tiers of society, and the procedure itself is a
relatively simple procedure before a or a royal bailiff or a provincial
prévôt. Petitioners receive a decree in the name of the queen or the
nobility of the province, recognizing their gender for all purposes.

The Elissian Decrees went further than that, and legally recognized all
variations of gender identity -- from those without gender at all to
those who combine either binary gender in ways unique to that
individual. This codified a long-standing practice among the lower and
middle classes of affirming the genders of everyone, not just those
within a strict binary.

The Gallinean language is a relatively genderless tongue that does not
require that a grammatical gender be assigned to every noun, verb, or
pronoun. However, as with most Qartan-descended languages, many
traditional names for occupations, noble titles, place of origin, and so
on, are expressed in female terminology. Older Gallineans consider these
terms to be gender-neutral by default, but younger speakers of the
language are moving toward more inclusive speech.

"She" is the default pronoun for a person of unspecified gender within
classical Gallinean, but there has been some progress made toward using
"they" as gender-neutral as well. "Iel/iem/ier/iels/ielself", a set of
non-binary pronouns used in some classical writings, has made a recent
resurgence and is used within the texts of the Elissian Reforms.

While physiological alterations are never required of those asserting
their gender within Gallinean society -- for legal or for social
purposes -- many such individuals desire changes to their bodies to
better match their self-image. Long-known alchemical formulations can
provide the equivalent of hormone replacement to those who wish it, and
a number of medical procedures exist that can provide further changes to
bring one's body into conformance with their stated gender.

##### (Sidebar) Gender Terminology

Clarissic. An adjective describing someone whose gender is not that
assigned at birth. A reference to Clarisse Sudelune, a former soldier,
Maréchale Général de Gallinea, princess-consort, and princess-regent in
the 12th century PQ.

Female. An adjective describing someone who is a woman.

Male. An adjective describing someone who is a man.

Man. Someone who is male.

Maverique (adj). An adjective describing someone who has a gender which
is not male, female, or a combination of those.

Maverique (n). Someone whose gender is maverique (adj).

Neutrois. An adjective describing someone who does not have a gender.

Person. Someone who is of any gender.

Perybrean. An adjective describing someone whose gender is a combination
of male and female, with that combination either being fixed or fluid
over time. Named after the Ekalian twin deities Peryon and Sybrea who
are to be reflections of each other or possibly the same god.

Woman. Someone who is female.

#### Sexuality

The concept of "homosexuality" and "heterosexuality" as distinct sexual
orientations is unknown within Gallinean society. Society, overall, is
bisexual and one's preference for specific genders is considered a
personal matter. No one cares whether this is an inborn preference or a
matter of choice; you love who you love, and that's what matters. 

The second Profession of Asrianism states that love is a gift from
Eserre herself, and the Books of the Sun encourage all to love as freely
as you wish, love as deeply as you wish, and love whomever you wish.
Eserre herself is depicted as married to a woman, the first Bride of the
Sun, and thus all subsequent leaders of the Asrian church have been
considered liturgically female.

Marriage or partnership within Gallinean culture can be between a woman
and a man, a woman and a woman, a man and a man, and recently, between
any one person and another regardless of gender or lack thereof.
Monogamy is expected among Asrian Gallineans, although monoamory is a
matter left up to the people in the relationship. Thus, you can only be
married to one person, but it a mutual decision between the two of you
whether it is an open relationship or a closed one.

The term "marriage" is reserved for those couples united in a religious
ceremony; otherwise it is called a "partnership". Terms such as "wife",
"husband", "spouse", or "partner", are not restricted to one type of
union; as with many other decisions this is made by each couple as they
choose. Gallineans consider all terms to refer to the same concept,
although classical Gallinean traditionally calls male spouses "husbands"
and female spouses "wives."

In recent years, greater acceptance has been made of those who are not
sexually attracted at all. Previously, asexual people were thought of as
being eccentric, of being damaged in some way, or as just not having
found the right person yet. One decree in the Elissian Reforms
establishes full legal equality, including inheritance rights, to people
who are asexual.

##### (Sidebar) Sexuality Terminology

Jathyc. An adjective describing a sexual or romantic relationship
between two men, named after the Ekalian deity Jathys, god of
craftsmanship and commerce.

Outré. An archaic adjective describing a man who is exclusively
attracted to women, or a woman who is exclusively attracted to men.
Often considered offensive.

Reian (adj). A recently-coined adjective describing someone who does not
feel sexual attraction, or sometimes, romantic attraction. Named after
the Ekalian deity Reios, god of politics and the underworld.

Reian (n). Someone whose sexuality is reian.

Sapphique. An adjective describing a sexual or romantic relationship
between two women, named after Safira, the first Bride of the Sun
according to Asrian theology.

There are no particular terms for being a bisexual person, a lesbian, or
a gay man in Gallinean. Such concepts don't exist in Elaran cultures.

Race
