### Heroes of Varendia

\#\# blurb

#### The Engineer

Varendia has perfected the art of siegecraft: if your neighboring duchy,
queendom, or grafschaft is being uncooperative and holes up in their
keep, refusing to fight, well, you can just blow the walls down and walk
right in.

Engineers are experts at handling blackpowder and converting into
military use, as well as constructing and repairing other types of siege
engines. They can usually find regular employ in Varendia or beyond,
with such skills being in higher demand during a state of open warfare.

****Suggested** Classes:** Alchemist, Brigand, Constable, Explorer,
Fusilier, Mechanician, Privateer, Provocateur, Veteran, Visionary

Suggested Passions: Artistry, Country, Loyalty, Pride

##### Engineer Class Traits

Skill Competency: Military, Science

Specialties: Military (Aim, Strategy), Observation (Perceive), Science
(Blackpowder, Clockworks, Calculus)

Weapon Prowess: Knife (D6), Pistol (D6), Grenade (D6), Cannon (D12)

Armor Prowess: Leather Jerkin (D6)

Social Rank: Soldier (D6)

Bonus Gear: Guard uniform (capotain, soldier's gloves, breeches, boots,
tabard), leather jerkin, blackpowder supplies (4 units), clockwork gears
(2 units), repair tools

##### Engineer Maneuvers

Aggressive Fulmination: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Blackpowder die to its maximum value before rolling

Bombadier: When attacking with a Blackpowder weapon, spend 1 Style Point
to add Calculus dice to a Blackpowder roll

Cunning Tactics: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Strategy
die to its maximum value before rolling

Experimental Reliability: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Science roll

Reliable Senses: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll

Powdersmith: When creating a device with a blackpowder flintlock power
source, a phlogistone furnace power source, or an explosion component,
spend 1 Style Point to add Blackpowder dice to a Clockworks roll

#### The Mountaineer

Surrounded by mountains on all sides save one, the nation of Varendia
has an understandable affinity for the peaks and valleys of the Lendine
and Tramalvane mountains. Mountaineers are found on both ranges,
engaging in lumbering or the raising of hardy goats. 

Most mountaineers consider themselves to above the fray of the patchwork
states that comprise the Varendian valley, not holding any particular
loyalty to "Flachlanders" and their petty squabbles -- although it's not
uncommon for them to hire themselves out as mercenaries when the heated
politics boil over into warfare.

****Suggested **Classes:** Brigand, Chaplain, Chirurgeon, Constable,
Dogsbody, Fusilier, Provincial, Veteran

Suggested Passions: Country, Friends, Love, Loyalty

##### Mountaineer Class Traits

Skill Competency: Culture, Medicine, Military, Nature, Streetwise

Specialties: Culture (Arts), Medicine (Treat), Military (Aim), Nature
(Explore, Husbandry), Streetwise (Carouse)

Weapon Prowess: Knife (D6), Cudgel (D6), Musket (D10)

Armor Prowess: Leather Jerkin (D6)

Social Rank: Soldier (D6)

Bonus Gear: Varendish climbing outfit (soldier's gloves, lederhosen,
boots, schlappe, cloak), musket, skis, foodstuffs (3 units), medicine (3
units), Varendish mountain dog

##### Mountaineer Maneuvers

Emergency Assistance: When treating someone who is suffering from
exposure to the elements, spend 1 Style Point to add Explore dice to a
Medicine roll

Reliable Senses: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll an Observation roll

Practiced Sharpshooting: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Aim die to its maximum value before rolling

Practiced Remedy: Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one Treat die
to its maximum value before rolling

Rural Reliabiity: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Nature roll

Yodeler: When working with domesticated animals, spend 1 Style Point to
add Arts dice to a Husbandry roll

#### Varendish Style Maneuvers

\#\#

****Landsknecht Tactics: When fighting with a pike, spend 1 Style Point
to add Strategy dice to a Lunge roll****

****Martial Reliability: Spend 1 Style Point to reroll a Military
roll****

**Practiced Debauchery: **Spend 2 Style Points to set the value of one
Carouse die to its maximum value before rolling****

